stable/ambassador/README.md, before:

# Ambassador

Ambassador is an open source, Kubernetes-native [microservices API gateway](https://www.getambassador.io/about/microservices-api-gateways) built on the [Envoy Proxy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/).

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/ambassador
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps an [Ambassador](https://www.getambassador.io) deployment on
a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.7+

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/ambassador
```

The command deploys Ambassador API gateway on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration.
The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete --purge my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following tables lists the configurable parameters of the Ambassador chart and their default values.

| Parameter                          | Description                                                                     | Default                           |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `adminService.create`              | If `true`, create a service for Ambassador's admin UI                           | `true`                            |
| `adminService.nodePort`            | If explicit NodePort for admin service is required                              | `true`                            |
| `adminService.type`                | Ambassador's admin service type to be used                                      | `ClusterIP`                       |
| `ambassadorConfig`                 | Config thats mounted to `/ambassador/ambassador-config`                         | `""`                              |
| `crds.create`                      | If `true`, Creates CRD resources                                                | `true`                            |
| `crds.keep`                        | If `true`, if the ambassador CRDs should be kept when the chart is deleted      | `true`                            |
| `daemonSet`                        | If `true`, Create a DaemonSet. By default Deployment controller will be created | `false`                           |
| `hostNetwork`                      | If `true`, uses the host network, useful for on-premise setups                  | `false`                           |
| `dnsPolicy`                        | Dns policy, when hostNetwork set to ClusterFirstWithHostNet                     | `ClusterFirst`                    |
| `env`                              | Any additional environment variables for ambassador pods                        | `{}`                              |
| `image.pullPolicy`                 | Ambassador image pull policy                                                    | `IfNotPresent`                    |
| `image.repository`                 | Ambassador image                                                                | `quay.io/datawire/ambassador`     |
| `image.tag`                        | Ambassador image tag                                                            | `0.72.0`                          |
| `imagePullSecrets`                 | Image pull secrets                                                              | `[]`                              |
| `namespace.name`                   | Set the `AMBASSADOR_NAMESPACE` environment variable                             | `metadata.namespace`              |
| `scope.singleNamespace`            | Set the `AMBASSADOR_SINGLE_NAMESPACE` environment variable                      | `false`                           |
| `podAnnotations`                   | Additional annotations for ambassador pods                                      | `{}`                              |
| `deploymentAnnotations`            | Additional annotations for ambassador DaemonSet/Deployment                      | `{}`                              |
| `podLabels`                        | Additional labels for ambassador pods                                           |                                   |
| `priorityClassName`                | The name of the priorityClass for the ambassador DaemonSet/Deployment           | `""`                              |
| `prometheusExporter.enabled`       | Prometheus exporter side-car enabled                                            | `false`                           |
| `prometheusExporter.pullPolicy`    | Image pull policy                                                               | `IfNotPresent`                    |
| `prometheusExporter.repository`    | Prometheus exporter image                                                       | `prom/statsd-exporter`            |
| `prometheusExporter.tag`           | Prometheus exporter image                                                       | `v0.8.1`                          |
| `prometheusExporter.resources`  | CPU/memory resource requests/limits                                                       | `{}`                          |
| `rbac.create`                      | If `true`, create and use RBAC resources                                        | `true`                            |
| `rbac.namespaced`                  | If `true`, permissions are namespace-scoped rather than cluster-scoped          | `false`                           |
| `replicaCount`                     | Number of Ambassador replicas                                                   | `3`                               |
| `resources`                        | CPU/memory resource requests/limits                                             | `{}`                              |
| `securityContext`                  | Set security context for pod                                                    | `{ "runAsUser": "8888" }`         |
| `initContainers`                   | Containers used to initialize context for pods                                  | `[]`                              |
| `service.annotations`              | Annotations to apply to Ambassador service                                      | See "Annotations" below           |
| `service.externalTrafficPolicy`    | Sets the external traffic policy for the service                                | `""`                              |
| `service.http.enabled`             | if port 80 should be opened for service                                         | `true`                            |
| `service.http.nodePort`            | If explicit NodePort is required                                                | None                              |
| `service.http.port`                | if port 443 should be opened for service                                        | `true`                            |
| `service.http.targetPort`          | Sets the targetPort that maps to the service's cleartext port                   | `8080`                            |
| `service.https.enabled`            | if port 443 should be opened for service                                        | `true`                            |
| `service.https.nodePort`           | If explicit NodePort is required                                                | None                              |
| `service.https.port`               | if port 443 should be opened for service                                        | `true`                            |
| `service.https.targetPort`         | Sets the targetPort that maps to the service's TLS port                         | `8443`                            |
| `service.loadBalancerIP`           | IP address to assign (if cloud provider supports it)                            | `""`                              |
| `service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | Passed to cloud provider load balancer if created (e.g: AWS ELB)                | None                              |
| `service.type`                     | Service type to be used                                                         | `LoadBalancer`                    |
| `serviceAccount.create`            | If `true`, create a new service account                                         | `true`                            |
| `serviceAccount.name`              | Service account to be used                                                      | `ambassador`                      |
| `volumeMounts`                     | Volume mounts for the ambassador service                                        | `[]`                              |
| `volumes`                          | Volumes for the ambassador service                                              | `[]`                              |
| `pro.enabled`                      | Installs the Ambassador Pro container as a sidecar to Ambassador                | `false`                           |
| `pro.image.repository`             | Ambassador Pro image                                                            | `quay.io/datawire/ambassador_pro` |
| `pro.image.tag`                    | Ambassador Pro image tag                                                        | `amb-sidecar-0.4.0`               |
| `pro.ports.auth`                   | Ambassador Pro authentication port                                              | `8500`                            |
| `pro.ports.ratelimit`              | Ambassador Pro ratelimit port                                                   | `8501`                            |
| `pro.ports.ratelimitDebug`         | Debug port for Ambassador Pro ratelimit                                         | `8502`                            |
| `pro.licenseKey.value`             | License key for Ambassador Pro                                                  | ""                                |
| `pro.licenseKey.secret`            | Stores the license key as a base64-encoded string in a Kubernetes secret        | `false`                           |
| `autoscaling.enabled`              | If true, creates Horizontal Pod Autoscaler                                      | `false`                           |
| `autoscaling.minReplica`           | If autoscaling enabled, this field sets minimum replica count                   | `2`                               |
| `autoscaling.maxReplica`           | If autoscaling enabled, this field sets maximum replica count                   | `5`                               |
| `autoscaling.metrics`              | If autoscaling enabled, configure hpa metrics                                   |                                   |
| `additionalTCPPorts`               | List of additional TCP ports to be exposed by the container and service         | `[]`                              |

**NOTE:** Make sure the configured `service.http.targetPort` and `service.https.targetPort` ports match your [Ambassador Module's](https://www.getambassador.io/reference/modules/#the-ambassador-module) `service_port` and `redirect_cleartext_from` configurations.

### Annotations

The default annotation applied to the Ambassador service is

```
getambassador.io/config: |
  ---
  apiVersion: ambassador/v1
  kind: Module
  name: ambassador
  config:
    service_port: 8080
```

If you intend to use `service.annotations`, remember to include the `getambassador.io/config` annotation key as above,
and remember that you'll have to escape newlines. For example, the annotation above could be defined as

```
service.annotations: { "getambassador.io/config": "---\napiVersion: ambassador/v1\nkind: Module\nname: ambassador\nconfig:\n  service_port: 8080" }
```

### Ambassador Pro

Setting `pro.enabled: true` will install Ambassador Pro as a sidecar to Ambassador with the required CRDs and redis instance.

You must set the `pro.licenseKey.value` to the license key issued to you. Sign up for a [free trial](https://www.getambassador.io/pro/free-trial) of Ambassador Pro or [contact](https://www.getambassador.io/contact) our sales team to obtain a license key.

For most use cases, `pro.image` and `pro.ports` can be left as default.

### Specifying Values

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm upgrade --install --wait my-release \
    --set adminService.type=NodePort \
    stable/ambassador
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm upgrade --install --wait my-release -f values.yaml stable/ambassador
```

---

# Upgrading

## To 2.0.0

### Ambassador ID

ambassador.id has been removed in favor of setting it via an environment variable in `env`. `AMBASSADOR_ID` defaults to `default` if not set in the environment. This is mainly used for [running multiple Ambassadors](https://www.getambassador.io/reference/running#ambassador_id) in the same cluster.

| Parameter       | Env variables   |
| --------------- | --------------- |
| `ambassador.id` | `AMBASSADOR_ID` |

## Migrating from `datawire/ambassador` chart (chart version 0.40.0 or 0.50.0)

Chart now runs ambassador as non-root by default, so you might need to update your ambassador module config to match this.

### Timings

Timings values have been removed in favor of setting the env variables using `env´

| Parameter         | Env variables              |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- |
| `timing.restart`  | `AMBASSADOR_RESTART_TIME`  |
| `timing.drain`    | `AMBASSADOR_DRAIN_TIME`    |
| `timing.shutdown` | `AMBASSADOR_SHUTDOWN_TIME` |

### Single namespace

| Parameter          | Env variables                 |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| `namespace.single` | `AMBASSADOR_SINGLE_NAMESPACE` |

### Renamed values

Service ports values have changed names and target ports have new defaults.

| Previous parameter          | New parameter              | New default value |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------- |
| `service.enableHttp`        | `service.http.enabled`     |                   |
| `service.httpPort`          | `service.http.port`        |                   |
| `service.httpNodePort`      | `service.http.nodePort`    |                   |
| `service.targetPorts.http`  | `service.http.targetPort`  | `8080`            |
| `service.enableHttps`       | `service.https.enabled`    |                   |
| `service.httpsPort`         | `service.https.port`       |                   |
| `service.httpsNodePort`     | `service.https.nodePort`   |                   |
| `service.targetPorts.https` | `service.https.targetPort` | `8443`            |

### Exporter sidecar

Pre version `0.50.0` ambassador was using socat and required a sidecar to export statsd metrics. In `0.50.0` ambassador no longer uses socat and doesn't need a sidecar anymore to export its statsd metrics. Statsd metrics are disabled by default and can be enabled by setting environment `STATSD_ENABLED`, this will (in 0.50) send metrics to a service named `statsd-sink`, if you want to send it to another service or namespace it can be changed by setting `STATSD_HOST`

If you are using prometheus the chart allows you to enable a sidecar which can export to prometheus see the `prometheusExporter` values.

Commit message:

ambassador: add podSecurityPolicies (#15407)
* stable/ambassador: add rbac.podSecurityPolicies

Signed-off-by: Giuseppe Valente <gvalente@arista.com>

* stable/ambassador: bump chart version

Signed-off-by: Giuseppe Valente <gvalente@arista.com>

stable/ambassador/README.md, after:

# Ambassador

Ambassador is an open source, Kubernetes-native [microservices API gateway](https://www.getambassador.io/about/microservices-api-gateways) built on the [Envoy Proxy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/).

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/ambassador
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps an [Ambassador](https://www.getambassador.io) deployment on
a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.7+

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/ambassador
```

The command deploys Ambassador API gateway on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration.
The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete --purge my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following tables lists the configurable parameters of the Ambassador chart and their default values.

| Parameter                          | Description                                                                     | Default                           |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `adminService.create`              | If `true`, create a service for Ambassador's admin UI                           | `true`                            |
| `adminService.nodePort`            | If explicit NodePort for admin service is required                              | `true`                            |
| `adminService.type`                | Ambassador's admin service type to be used                                      | `ClusterIP`                       |
| `ambassadorConfig`                 | Config thats mounted to `/ambassador/ambassador-config`                         | `""`                              |
| `crds.create`                      | If `true`, Creates CRD resources                                                | `true`                            |
| `crds.keep`                        | If `true`, if the ambassador CRDs should be kept when the chart is deleted      | `true`                            |
| `daemonSet`                        | If `true`, Create a DaemonSet. By default Deployment controller will be created | `false`                           |
| `hostNetwork`                      | If `true`, uses the host network, useful for on-premise setups                  | `false`                           |
| `dnsPolicy`                        | Dns policy, when hostNetwork set to ClusterFirstWithHostNet                     | `ClusterFirst`                    |
| `env`                              | Any additional environment variables for ambassador pods                        | `{}`                              |
| `image.pullPolicy`                 | Ambassador image pull policy                                                    | `IfNotPresent`                    |
| `image.repository`                 | Ambassador image                                                                | `quay.io/datawire/ambassador`     |
| `image.tag`                        | Ambassador image tag                                                            | `0.72.0`                          |
| `imagePullSecrets`                 | Image pull secrets                                                              | `[]`                              |
| `namespace.name`                   | Set the `AMBASSADOR_NAMESPACE` environment variable                             | `metadata.namespace`              |
| `scope.singleNamespace`            | Set the `AMBASSADOR_SINGLE_NAMESPACE` environment variable                      | `false`                           |
| `podAnnotations`                   | Additional annotations for ambassador pods                                      | `{}`                              |
| `deploymentAnnotations`            | Additional annotations for ambassador DaemonSet/Deployment                      | `{}`                              |
| `podLabels`                        | Additional labels for ambassador pods                                           |                                   |
| `priorityClassName`                | The name of the priorityClass for the ambassador DaemonSet/Deployment           | `""`                              |
| `prometheusExporter.enabled`       | Prometheus exporter side-car enabled                                            | `false`                           |
| `prometheusExporter.pullPolicy`    | Image pull policy                                                               | `IfNotPresent`                    |
| `prometheusExporter.repository`    | Prometheus exporter image                                                       | `prom/statsd-exporter`            |
| `prometheusExporter.tag`           | Prometheus exporter image                                                       | `v0.8.1`                          |
| `prometheusExporter.resources`  | CPU/memory resource requests/limits                                                       | `{}`                          |
| `rbac.create`                      | If `true`, create and use RBAC resources                                        | `true`                            |
| `rbac.namespaced`                  | If `true`, permissions are namespace-scoped rather than cluster-scoped          | `false`                           |
| `rbac.podSecurityPolicies`         | pod security polices to bind to                                                 |                                   |
| `replicaCount`                     | Number of Ambassador replicas                                                   | `3`                               |
| `resources`                        | CPU/memory resource requests/limits                                             | `{}`                              |
| `securityContext`                  | Set security context for pod                                                    | `{ "runAsUser": "8888" }`         |
| `initContainers`                   | Containers used to initialize context for pods                                  | `[]`                              |
| `service.annotations`              | Annotations to apply to Ambassador service                                      | See "Annotations" below           |
| `service.externalTrafficPolicy`    | Sets the external traffic policy for the service                                | `""`                              |
| `service.http.enabled`             | if port 80 should be opened for service                                         | `true`                            |
| `service.http.nodePort`            | If explicit NodePort is required                                                | None                              |
| `service.http.port`                | if port 443 should be opened for service                                        | `true`                            |
| `service.http.targetPort`          | Sets the targetPort that maps to the service's cleartext port                   | `8080`                            |
| `service.https.enabled`            | if port 443 should be opened for service                                        | `true`                            |
| `service.https.nodePort`           | If explicit NodePort is required                                                | None                              |
| `service.https.port`               | if port 443 should be opened for service                                        | `true`                            |
| `service.https.targetPort`         | Sets the targetPort that maps to the service's TLS port                         | `8443`                            |
| `service.loadBalancerIP`           | IP address to assign (if cloud provider supports it)                            | `""`                              |
| `service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | Passed to cloud provider load balancer if created (e.g: AWS ELB)                | None                              |
| `service.type`                     | Service type to be used                                                         | `LoadBalancer`                    |
| `serviceAccount.create`            | If `true`, create a new service account                                         | `true`                            |
| `serviceAccount.name`              | Service account to be used                                                      | `ambassador`                      |
| `volumeMounts`                     | Volume mounts for the ambassador service                                        | `[]`                              |
| `volumes`                          | Volumes for the ambassador service                                              | `[]`                              |
| `pro.enabled`                      | Installs the Ambassador Pro container as a sidecar to Ambassador                | `false`                           |
| `pro.image.repository`             | Ambassador Pro image                                                            | `quay.io/datawire/ambassador_pro` |
| `pro.image.tag`                    | Ambassador Pro image tag                                                        | `amb-sidecar-0.4.0`               |
| `pro.ports.auth`                   | Ambassador Pro authentication port                                              | `8500`                            |
| `pro.ports.ratelimit`              | Ambassador Pro ratelimit port                                                   | `8501`                            |
| `pro.ports.ratelimitDebug`         | Debug port for Ambassador Pro ratelimit                                         | `8502`                            |
| `pro.licenseKey.value`             | License key for Ambassador Pro                                                  | ""                                |
| `pro.licenseKey.secret`            | Stores the license key as a base64-encoded string in a Kubernetes secret        | `false`                           |
| `autoscaling.enabled`              | If true, creates Horizontal Pod Autoscaler                                      | `false`                           |
| `autoscaling.minReplica`           | If autoscaling enabled, this field sets minimum replica count                   | `2`                               |
| `autoscaling.maxReplica`           | If autoscaling enabled, this field sets maximum replica count                   | `5`                               |
| `autoscaling.metrics`              | If autoscaling enabled, configure hpa metrics                                   |                                   |
| `additionalTCPPorts`               | List of additional TCP ports to be exposed by the container and service         | `[]`                              |

**NOTE:** Make sure the configured `service.http.targetPort` and `service.https.targetPort` ports match your [Ambassador Module's](https://www.getambassador.io/reference/modules/#the-ambassador-module) `service_port` and `redirect_cleartext_from` configurations.

### Annotations

The default annotation applied to the Ambassador service is

```
getambassador.io/config: |
  ---
  apiVersion: ambassador/v1
  kind: Module
  name: ambassador
  config:
    service_port: 8080
```

If you intend to use `service.annotations`, remember to include the `getambassador.io/config` annotation key as above,
and remember that you'll have to escape newlines. For example, the annotation above could be defined as

```
service.annotations: { "getambassador.io/config": "---\napiVersion: ambassador/v1\nkind: Module\nname: ambassador\nconfig:\n  service_port: 8080" }
```

### Ambassador Pro

Setting `pro.enabled: true` will install Ambassador Pro as a sidecar to Ambassador with the required CRDs and redis instance.

You must set the `pro.licenseKey.value` to the license key issued to you. Sign up for a [free trial](https://www.getambassador.io/pro/free-trial) of Ambassador Pro or [contact](https://www.getambassador.io/contact) our sales team to obtain a license key.

For most use cases, `pro.image` and `pro.ports` can be left as default.

### Specifying Values

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm upgrade --install --wait my-release \
    --set adminService.type=NodePort \
    stable/ambassador
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm upgrade --install --wait my-release -f values.yaml stable/ambassador
```

---

# Upgrading

## To 2.0.0

### Ambassador ID

ambassador.id has been removed in favor of setting it via an environment variable in `env`. `AMBASSADOR_ID` defaults to `default` if not set in the environment. This is mainly used for [running multiple Ambassadors](https://www.getambassador.io/reference/running#ambassador_id) in the same cluster.

| Parameter       | Env variables   |
| --------------- | --------------- |
| `ambassador.id` | `AMBASSADOR_ID` |

## Migrating from `datawire/ambassador` chart (chart version 0.40.0 or 0.50.0)

Chart now runs ambassador as non-root by default, so you might need to update your ambassador module config to match this.

### Timings

Timings values have been removed in favor of setting the env variables using `env´

| Parameter         | Env variables              |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- |
| `timing.restart`  | `AMBASSADOR_RESTART_TIME`  |
| `timing.drain`    | `AMBASSADOR_DRAIN_TIME`    |
| `timing.shutdown` | `AMBASSADOR_SHUTDOWN_TIME` |

### Single namespace

| Parameter          | Env variables                 |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| `namespace.single` | `AMBASSADOR_SINGLE_NAMESPACE` |

### Renamed values

Service ports values have changed names and target ports have new defaults.

| Previous parameter          | New parameter              | New default value |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------- |
| `service.enableHttp`        | `service.http.enabled`     |                   |
| `service.httpPort`          | `service.http.port`        |                   |
| `service.httpNodePort`      | `service.http.nodePort`    |                   |
| `service.targetPorts.http`  | `service.http.targetPort`  | `8080`            |
| `service.enableHttps`       | `service.https.enabled`    |                   |
| `service.httpsPort`         | `service.https.port`       |                   |
| `service.httpsNodePort`     | `service.https.nodePort`   |                   |
| `service.targetPorts.https` | `service.https.targetPort` | `8443`            |

### Exporter sidecar

Pre version `0.50.0` ambassador was using socat and required a sidecar to export statsd metrics. In `0.50.0` ambassador no longer uses socat and doesn't need a sidecar anymore to export its statsd metrics. Statsd metrics are disabled by default and can be enabled by setting environment `STATSD_ENABLED`, this will (in 0.50) send metrics to a service named `statsd-sink`, if you want to send it to another service or namespace it can be changed by setting `STATSD_HOST`

If you are using prometheus the chart allows you to enable a sidecar which can export to prometheus see the `prometheusExporter` values.
