stable/metallb/README.md, before:

MetalLB
-------

MetalLB is a load-balancer implementation for bare metal [Kubernetes][k8s-home]
clusters, using standard routing protocols.

TL;DR;
------

```console
$ helm install --name metallb stable/metallb
```

Introduction
------------

This chart bootstraps a [MetalLB][metallb-home] installation on
a [Kubernetes][k8s-home] cluster using the [Helm][helm-home] package manager.
This chart provides an implementation for LoadBalancer Service objects.

MetalLB is a cluster service, and as such can only be deployed as a
cluster singleton. Running multiple installations of MetalLB in a
single cluster is not supported.

Prerequisites
-------------

-  Kubernetes 1.9+

Installing the Chart
--------------------

The chart can be installed as follows:

```console
$ helm install --name metallb stable/metallb
```

The command deploys MetalLB on the Kubernetes cluster. This chart does
not provide a default configuration; MetalLB will not act on your
Kubernetes Services until you provide
one. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists various ways to
provide this configuration.

Uninstalling the Chart
----------------------

To uninstall/delete the `metallb` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete metallb
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the
chart, but will not remove the release metadata from `helm` — this will prevent
you, for example, if you later try to create a release also named `metallb`). To
fully delete the release and release history, simply [include the `--purge`
flag][helm-usage]:

```console
$ helm delete --purge metallb
```

Configuration
-------------

See `values.yaml` for configuration notes. Specify each parameter
using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm
install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name metallb \
  --set rbac.create=false \
    stable/metallb
```

The above command disables the use of RBAC rules.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above
parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name metallb -f values.yaml stable/metallb
```

By default, this chart does not install a configuration for MetalLB, and simply
warns you that you must follow [the configuration instructions on MetalLB's
website][metallb-config] to create an appropriate ConfigMap.

If you have a more complex configuration and want Helm to manage it for you, you
can provide it in the `config` parameter. The configuration format is
[documented on MetalLB's website][metallb-config].

```console
$ cat values.yaml
configInline:
  peers:
  - peer-address: 10.0.0.1
    peer-asn: 64512
    my-asn: 64512
  address-pools:
  - name: default
    protocol: bgp
    addresses:
    - 198.51.100.0/24

$ helm install --name metallb -f values.yaml stable/metallb
```

[helm-home]: https://helm.sh
[helm-usage]: https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/
[k8s-home]: https://kubernetes.io
[metallb-arpndp-concepts]: https://metallb.universe.tf/concepts/arp-ndp/
[metallb-config]: https://metallb.universe.tf/configuration/
[metallb-home]: https://metallb.universe.tf

Commit message:

Added warning about configuration difference from MetalLB docs (#12857)
* Added warning about configuration difference from MetalLB docs

Signed-off-by: Eamon Bauman <eamon@eamonbauman.com>

* Bumped version

Signed-off-by: Eamon Bauman <eamon@eamonbauman.com>

* changed config to system to match metallb docs

Signed-off-by: Eamon Bauman <eamon@eamonbauman.com>

* version bump

Signed-off-by: Eamon Bauman <eamon@eamonbauman.com>

stable/metallb/README.md, after:

MetalLB
-------

MetalLB is a load-balancer implementation for bare metal [Kubernetes][k8s-home]
clusters, using standard routing protocols.

TL;DR;
------

```console
$ helm install --name metallb stable/metallb
```

Introduction
------------

This chart bootstraps a [MetalLB][metallb-home] installation on
a [Kubernetes][k8s-home] cluster using the [Helm][helm-home] package manager.
This chart provides an implementation for LoadBalancer Service objects.

MetalLB is a cluster service, and as such can only be deployed as a
cluster singleton. Running multiple installations of MetalLB in a
single cluster is not supported.

Prerequisites
-------------

-  Kubernetes 1.9+

Installing the Chart
--------------------

The chart can be installed as follows:

```console
$ helm install --name metallb stable/metallb
```

The command deploys MetalLB on the Kubernetes cluster. This chart does
not provide a default configuration; MetalLB will not act on your
Kubernetes Services until you provide
one. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists various ways to
provide this configuration.

Uninstalling the Chart
----------------------

To uninstall/delete the `metallb` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete metallb
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the
chart, but will not remove the release metadata from `helm` — this will prevent
you, for example, if you later try to create a release also named `metallb`). To
fully delete the release and release history, simply [include the `--purge`
flag][helm-usage]:

```console
$ helm delete --purge metallb
```

Configuration
-------------

See `values.yaml` for configuration notes. Specify each parameter
using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm
install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name metallb \
  --set rbac.create=false \
    stable/metallb
```

The above command disables the use of RBAC rules.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above
parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name metallb -f values.yaml stable/metallb
```

By default, this chart does not install a configuration for MetalLB, and simply
warns you that you must follow [the configuration instructions on MetalLB's
website][metallb-config] to create an appropriate ConfigMap.

**Please note:** By default, this chart expects a ConfigMap named 'metallb-config' within the same namespace as the chart is deployed. _This is different than the MetalLB documentation_, which asks you to create a ConfigMap in the `metallb-system` namespace, with the name of 'config'.

If you have a more complex configuration and want Helm to manage it for you, you
can provide it in the `config` parameter. The configuration format is
[documented on MetalLB's website][metallb-config].

```console
$ cat values.yaml
configInline:
  peers:
  - peer-address: 10.0.0.1
    peer-asn: 64512
    my-asn: 64512
  address-pools:
  - name: default
    protocol: bgp
    addresses:
    - 198.51.100.0/24

$ helm install --name metallb -f values.yaml stable/metallb
```

[helm-home]: https://helm.sh
[helm-usage]: https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/
[k8s-home]: https://kubernetes.io
[metallb-arpndp-concepts]: https://metallb.universe.tf/concepts/arp-ndp/
[metallb-config]: https://metallb.universe.tf/configuration/
[metallb-home]: https://metallb.universe.tf
