stable/instana-agent/README.md, before:

# Instana

[Instana](https://www.instana.com/) is a Dynamic APM for Microservice Applications

## Introduction

This chart adds the Instana Agent to all schedulable nodes (e.g. by default, not masters) in your cluster via a `DaemonSet`.

## Prerequisites

Kubernetes 1.8.x - 1.13.x

Working `helm` and `tiller`.

_Note:_ Tiller may need a service account and role binding if RBAC is enabled in your cluster.

## Installing the Chart

To configure the installation you can either specify the options on the command line using the **--set** switch, or you can edit **values.yaml**. Either way you should ensure that you set values for:

* agent.key
* zone.name or cluster.name

For most users, setting the `zone.name` is sufficient. However, if you would like to be able group your hosts based on the availability zone rather than cluster name, then you can specify the cluster name using the `cluster.name` instead of the `zone.name` setting. If you omit the `zone.name` the host zone will be automatically determined by the availability zone information on the host.

If you're in the EU, you'll probably also want to set the regional equivalent values for:

* agent.endpointHost
* agent.endpointPort

Optionally, if your infrastructure uses a proxy, you should ensure that you set values for:

* agent.pod.proxyHost
* agent.pod.proxyPort
* agent.pod.proxyProtocol
* agent.pod.proxyUser
* agent.pod.proxyPassword
* agent.pod.proxyUseDNS

Optionally, if your infrastructure has multiple networks defined, you might need to allow the agent to listen on all addresses (typically with value set to '*'):

* agent.listenAddress

If your agent requires download key, you should ensure that you set values for it:

* agent.downloadKey

Agent can have APM, INFRASTRUCTURE or AWS mode. Default is APM and if you want to override that, ensure you set value:

* agent.mode

_Note:_ Check the values for the endpoint entries in the [agent backend configuration](https://docs.instana.io/quick_start/agent_configuration/#backend).

To install the chart with the release name `instana-agent` and set the values on the command line run:

```bash
$ helm install --name instana-agent --namespace instana-agent \
--set agent.key=INSTANA_AGENT_KEY \
--set agent.endpointHost=HOST \
--set agent.endpointPort=PORT \
--set zone.name=ZONE_NAME \
--set cluster.name=CLUSTER_NAME \
--set agent.downloadKey=INSTANA_DOWNLOAD_KEY \
--set agent.proxyHost=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_HOST \
--set agent.proxyPort=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_PORT \
--set agent.proxyProtocol=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_PROTOCOL \
--set agent.proxyUser=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_USER \
--set agent.proxyPassword=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_PASSWORD \
--set agent.proxyUseDNS=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_USE_DNS \
--set agent.listenAddress=INSTANA_AGENT_HTTP_LISTEN \
stable/instana-agent
```

To install the chart with the release name `instana-agent` after editing the **values.yaml** file, run:

```bash
$ helm install --name instana-agent --namespace instana-agent stable/instana-agent
```

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `instana-agent` daemon set:

```bash
$ helm del --purge instana-agent
```

## Configuration

### Helm Chart

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Instana chart and their default values.

|             Parameter              |            Description                                                  |                    Default                                                                                  |
|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `agent.key`                        | Your Instana Agent key                                                  | `nil` You must provide your own key                                                                         |
| `zone.name`                        | Zone that detected technologies will be assigned to                     | `nil` You must provide either `zone.name` or `cluster.name`, see [above](#installing-the-chart) for details |
| `cluster.name`                     | Display name of the monitored cluster                                   | Value of `zone.name`                                                                                        |
| `agent.image.name`                 | The image name to pull                                                  | `instana/agent`                                                                                             |
| `agent.image.tag`                  | The image tag to pull                                                   | `1.0.17`                                                                                                    |
| `agent.image.pullPolicy`           | Image pull policy                                                       | `IfNotPresent`                                                                                              |
| `agent.leaderElectorPort`          | Instana leader elector sidecar port                                     | `42655`                                                                                                     |
| `agent.endpointHost`               | Instana agent backend endpoint host                                     | `saas-us-west-2.instana.io`                                                                                 |
| `agent.endpointPort`               | Instana agent backend endpoint port                                     | `443`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.downloadKey`                | Your Instana Download key                                               | `nil` You must provide your own download key                                                                |
| `agent.mode`                       | Agent mode (Supported values are APM, INFRASTRUCTURE, AWS)              | `APM`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.annotations`            | Additional annotations to apply to the pod                              | `{}`                                                                                                        |
| `agent.pod.tolerations`            | Tolerations for pod assignment                                          | `[]`                                                                                                        |
| `agent.pod.proxyHost`              | Hostname/address of a proxy                                             | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyPort`              | Port of a proxy                                                         | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyProtocol`          | Proxy protocol (Supported proxy types are "http", "socks4", "socks5")   | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyUser`              | Username of the proxy auth                                              | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyPassword`          | Password of the proxy auth                                              | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyUseDNS`            | Boolean if proxy also does DNS                                          | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.listenAddress`              | List of addresses to listen on, or "*" for all interfaces               | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.requests.memory`        | Container memory requests in MiB                                        | `512`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.requests.cpu`           | Container cpu requests in cpu cores                                     | `0.5`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.limits.memory`          | Container memory limits in MiB                                          | `512`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.limits.cpu`             | Container cpu limits in cpu cores                                       | `1.5`                                                                                                       |
| `rbac.create`                      | Whether RBAC resources should be created                                | `true`                                                                                                      |
| `serviceAccount.create`            | Whether a ServiceAccount should be created                              | `true`                                                                                                      |
| `serviceAccount.name`              | Name of the ServiceAccount to use                                       | `instana-agent`                                                                                             |

### Agent

There is a [config map](templates/configmap.yaml) which you can edit to configure the agent. This configuration will be used for all instana agents on all nodes.

Commit message:

Allow the agent configuration.yaml to be configurable via values.yaml in addition to editing the configmap. (#15215)
Signed-off-by: Dahlia Bock <dlbock@gmail.com>

stable/instana-agent/README.md, after:

# Instana

[Instana](https://www.instana.com/) is a Dynamic APM for Microservice Applications

## Introduction

This chart adds the Instana Agent to all schedulable nodes (e.g. by default, not masters) in your cluster via a `DaemonSet`.

## Prerequisites

Kubernetes 1.8.x - 1.13.x

Working `helm` and `tiller`.

_Note:_ Tiller may need a service account and role binding if RBAC is enabled in your cluster.

## Installing the Chart

To configure the installation you can either specify the options on the command line using the **--set** switch, or you can edit **values.yaml**. Either way you should ensure that you set values for:

* agent.key
* zone.name or cluster.name

For most users, setting the `zone.name` is sufficient. However, if you would like to be able group your hosts based on the availability zone rather than cluster name, then you can specify the cluster name using the `cluster.name` instead of the `zone.name` setting. If you omit the `zone.name` the host zone will be automatically determined by the availability zone information on the host.

If you're in the EU, you'll probably also want to set the regional equivalent values for:

* agent.endpointHost
* agent.endpointPort

Optionally, if your infrastructure uses a proxy, you should ensure that you set values for:

* agent.pod.proxyHost
* agent.pod.proxyPort
* agent.pod.proxyProtocol
* agent.pod.proxyUser
* agent.pod.proxyPassword
* agent.pod.proxyUseDNS

Optionally, if your infrastructure has multiple networks defined, you might need to allow the agent to listen on all addresses (typically with value set to '*'):

* agent.listenAddress

If your agent requires download key, you should ensure that you set values for it:

* agent.downloadKey

Agent can have APM, INFRASTRUCTURE or AWS mode. Default is APM and if you want to override that, ensure you set value:

* agent.mode

_Note:_ Check the values for the endpoint entries in the [agent backend configuration](https://docs.instana.io/quick_start/agent_configuration/#backend).

To install the chart with the release name `instana-agent` and set the values on the command line run:

```bash
$ helm install --name instana-agent --namespace instana-agent \
--set agent.key=INSTANA_AGENT_KEY \
--set agent.endpointHost=HOST \
--set agent.endpointPort=PORT \
--set zone.name=ZONE_NAME \
--set cluster.name=CLUSTER_NAME \
--set agent.downloadKey=INSTANA_DOWNLOAD_KEY \
--set agent.proxyHost=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_HOST \
--set agent.proxyPort=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_PORT \
--set agent.proxyProtocol=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_PROTOCOL \
--set agent.proxyUser=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_USER \
--set agent.proxyPassword=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_PASSWORD \
--set agent.proxyUseDNS=INSTANA_AGENT_PROXY_USE_DNS \
--set agent.listenAddress=INSTANA_AGENT_HTTP_LISTEN \
stable/instana-agent
```

To install the chart with the release name `instana-agent` after editing the **values.yaml** file, run:

```bash
$ helm install --name instana-agent --namespace instana-agent stable/instana-agent
```

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `instana-agent` daemon set:

```bash
$ helm del --purge instana-agent
```

## Configuration

### Helm Chart

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Instana chart and their default values.

|             Parameter              |            Description                                                  |                    Default                                                                                  |
|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `agent.key`                        | Your Instana Agent key                                                  | `nil` You must provide your own key                                                                         |
| `zone.name`                        | Zone that detected technologies will be assigned to                     | `nil` You must provide either `zone.name` or `cluster.name`, see [above](#installing-the-chart) for details |
| `cluster.name`                     | Display name of the monitored cluster                                   | Value of `zone.name`                                                                                        |
| `agent.image.name`                 | The image name to pull                                                  | `instana/agent`                                                                                             |
| `agent.image.tag`                  | The image tag to pull                                                   | `1.0.17`                                                                                                    |
| `agent.image.pullPolicy`           | Image pull policy                                                       | `IfNotPresent`                                                                                              |
| `agent.leaderElectorPort`          | Instana leader elector sidecar port                                     | `42655`                                                                                                     |
| `agent.endpointHost`               | Instana agent backend endpoint host                                     | `saas-us-west-2.instana.io`                                                                                 |
| `agent.endpointPort`               | Instana agent backend endpoint port                                     | `443`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.downloadKey`                | Your Instana Download key                                               | `nil` You must provide your own download key                                                                |
| `agent.mode`                       | Agent mode (Supported values are APM, INFRASTRUCTURE, AWS)              | `APM`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.annotations`            | Additional annotations to apply to the pod                              | `{}`                                                                                                        |
| `agent.pod.tolerations`            | Tolerations for pod assignment                                          | `[]`                                                                                                        |
| `agent.pod.proxyHost`              | Hostname/address of a proxy                                             | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyPort`              | Port of a proxy                                                         | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyProtocol`          | Proxy protocol (Supported proxy types are "http", "socks4", "socks5")   | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyUser`              | Username of the proxy auth                                              | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyPassword`          | Password of the proxy auth                                              | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.proxyUseDNS`            | Boolean if proxy also does DNS                                          | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.listenAddress`              | List of addresses to listen on, or "*" for all interfaces               | `nil`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.requests.memory`        | Container memory requests in MiB                                        | `512`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.requests.cpu`           | Container cpu requests in cpu cores                                     | `0.5`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.limits.memory`          | Container memory limits in MiB                                          | `512`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.pod.limits.cpu`             | Container cpu limits in cpu cores                                       | `1.5`                                                                                                       |
| `agent.configuration_yaml`         | Custom content for the agent configuration.yaml file                    | `nil` See [below](#agent) for more details                                                                  |
| `rbac.create`                      | Whether RBAC resources should be created                                | `true`                                                                                                      |
| `serviceAccount.create`            | Whether a ServiceAccount should be created                              | `true`                                                                                                      |
| `serviceAccount.name`              | Name of the ServiceAccount to use                                       | `instana-agent`                                                                                             |

### Agent

To configure the agent, you can either:

- edit the [config map](templates/configmap.yaml), or
- provide the configuration via the `agent.configuration_yaml` parameter in [values.yaml](values.yaml)

This configuration will be used for all instana agents on all nodes. Visit the [agent configuration documentation](https://docs.instana.io/quick_start/agent_configuration/#configuration) for more details on configuration options.
