stable/nextcloud/README.md, before:

# nextcloud

[nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/) is a file sharing server that puts the control and security of your own data back into your hands.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/nextcloud
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps an [nextcloud](https://hub.docker.com/_/nextcloud/) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

It also packages the [Bitnami MariaDB chart](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/mariadb) which is required for bootstrapping a MariaDB deployment for the database requirements of the nextcloud application.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.9+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/nextcloud
```

The command deploys nextcloud on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the nextcloud chart and their default values.

|              Parameter              |                   Description                 |                         Default                         |
|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------- |
| `image.repository`                  | nextcloud Image name                          | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `image.tag`                         | nextcloud Image tag                           | `{VERSION}`                                             |
| `image.pullPolicy`                  | Image pull policy                             | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent` |
| `image.pullSecrets`                 | Specify image pull secrets                    | `nil`                                                   |
| `ingress.enabled`                   | Enable use of ingress controllers             | `false`                                                 |
| `ingress.servicePort`               | Ingress' backend servicePort                  | `http`                                                  |
| `ingress.annotations`               | An array of service annotations               | `nil`                                                   |
| `ingress.tls`                       | Ingress TLS configuration                     | `[]`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.host`                    | nextcloud host to create application URLs     | `nextcloud.kube.home`                                   |
| `nextcloud.username`                | User of the application                       | `admin`                                                 |
| `nextcloud.password`                | Application password                          | `changeme`                                              |
| `nextcloud.update`                  | Trigger update if custom command is used      | `0`                                                     |
| `nextcloud.datadir`                 | nextcloud data dir location                   | `/var/www/html/data`                                    |
| `nextcloud.tableprefix`             | nextcloud db table prefix                     | `''`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.mail.enabled`            | Whether to enable/disable email settings      | `false`                                                 |
| `nextcloud.mail.fromAddress`        | nextcloud mail send from field                | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.domain`             | nextcloud mail domain                         | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.host`          | SMTP hostname                                 | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.secure`        | SMTP connection `ssl` or empty                | `''`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.port`          | Optional SMTP port                            | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.authtype`      | SMTP authentication method                    | `LOGIN`                                                 |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.name`          | SMTP username                                 | `''`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.password`      | SMTP password                                 | `''`                                                    |
| `internalDatabase.enabled`          | Whether to use internal sqlite database       | `true`                                                  |
| `internalDatabase.database`         | Name of the existing database                 | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.enabled`          | Whether to use external database              | `false`                                                 |
| `externalDatabase.host`             | Host of the external database                 | `nil`                                                   |
| `externalDatabase.database`         | Name of the existing database                 | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.user`             | Existing username in the external db          | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.password`         | Password for the above username               | `nil`                                                   |
| `mariadb.enabled`                   | Whether to use the MariaDB chart              | `false`                                                 |
| `mariadb.db.name`                   | Database name to create                       | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `mariadb.db.password`               | Password for the database                     | `changeme`                                              |
| `mariadb.db.user`                   | Database user to create                       | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `mariadb.rootUser.password`         | MariaDB admin password                        | `nil`                                                   |
| `cronjob.enabled`                   | Whether to enable/disable cronjob             | `false`                                                 |
| `cronjob.schedule`                  | Schedule for the CronJob                      | `*/15 * * * *`                                          |
| `cronjob.annotations`               | Annotations to add to the cronjob             | {}                                                      |
| `cronjob.failedJobsHistoryLimit`    | Specify the number of failed Jobs to keep     | `5`                                                     |
| `cronjob.successfulJobsHistoryLimit`| Specify the number of completed Jobs to keep  | `2`                                                     |
| `service.type`                      | Kubernetes Service type                       | `ClusterIp`                                             |
| `service.loadBalancerIP`            | LoadBalancerIp for service type LoadBalancer  | `nil`                                                   |
| `persistence.enabled`               | Enable persistence using PVC                  | `false`                                                 |
| `persistence.storageClass`          | PVC Storage Class for nextcloud volume        | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `persistence.existingClaim`         | An Existing PVC name for nextcloud volume     | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `persistence.accessMode`            | PVC Access Mode for nextcloud volume          | `ReadWriteOnce`                                         |
| `persistence.size`                  | PVC Storage Request for nextcloud volume      | `8Gi`                                                   |
| `resources`                         | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits           | `{}`                                                    |
| `livenessProbe.enabled`             | Turn on and off liveness probe                | `true`                                                  |
| `livenessProbe.initialDelaySeconds` | Delay before liveness probe is initiated      | `30`                                                    |
| `livenessProbe.periodSeconds`       | How often to perform the probe                | `15`                                                    |
| `livenessProbe.timeoutSeconds`      | When the probe times out                      | `5`                                                     |
| `livenessProbe.failureThreshold`    | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe    | `3`                                                     |
| `livenessProbe.successThreshold`    | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe   | `1`                                                     |
| `readinessProbe.enabled`            | Turn on and off readiness probe               | `true`                                                  |
| `readinessProbe.initialDelaySeconds`| Delay before readiness probe is initiated     | `30`                                                    |
| `readinessProbe.periodSeconds`      | How often to perform the probe                | `15`                                                    |
| `readinessProbe.timeoutSeconds`     | When the probe times out                      | `5`                                                     |
| `readinessProbe.failureThreshold`   | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe    | `3`                                                     |
| `readinessProbe.successThreshold`   | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe   | `1`                                                     |

> **Note**:
>
> For nextcloud to function correctly, you should specify the `nextcloud.host` parameter to specify the FQDN (recommended) or the public IP address of the nextcloud service.
>
> Optionally, you can specify the `service.loadBalancerIP` parameter to assign a reserved IP address to the nextcloud service of the chart. However please note that this feature is only available on a few cloud providers (f.e. GKE).
>
> To reserve a public IP address on GKE:
>
> ```bash
> $ gcloud compute addresses create nextcloud-public-ip
> ```
>
> The reserved IP address can be associated to the nextcloud service by specifying it as the value of the `service.loadBalancerIP` parameter while installing the chart.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set nextcloud.username=admin,nextcloud.password=password,mariadb.rootUser.password=secretpassword \
    stable/nextcloud
```

The above command sets the nextcloud administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively. Additionally, it sets the MariaDB `root` user password to `secretpassword`.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/nextcloud
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [Nextcloud](https://hub.docker.com/_/nextcloud/) image stores the nextcloud data and configurations at the `/var/www/html` paths of the container.

Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments. This is known to work in GCE, AWS, and minikube.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section to enable persistence and configuration of the PVC.

## Cronjob

This chart can utilize Kubernetes `CronJob` resource to execute [background tasks](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration_server/background_jobs_configuration.html).

To use this functionality, set `cronjob.enabled` parameter to `true` and switch background mode to Webcron in your nextcloud settings page.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section for further configuration of the cronjob resource.

> **Note**: For the cronjobs to work correctly, ingress must be also enabled (set `ingress.enabled` to `true`) and `nextcloud.host` has to be publicly resolvable.

Commit message:

[stable/nextcloud] add redis feature (#15024)
Signed-off-by: Christian Ingenhaag <christian.ingenhaag@googlemail.com>

stable/nextcloud/README.md, after:

# nextcloud

[nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/) is a file sharing server that puts the control and security of your own data back into your hands.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/nextcloud
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps an [nextcloud](https://hub.docker.com/_/nextcloud/) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

It also packages the [Bitnami MariaDB chart](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable/mariadb) which is required for bootstrapping a MariaDB deployment for the database requirements of the nextcloud application.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.9+ with Beta APIs enabled
- PV provisioner support in the underlying infrastructure

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/nextcloud
```

The command deploys nextcloud on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the nextcloud chart and their default values.

|              Parameter              |                   Description                 |                         Default                         |
|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------- |
| `image.repository`                  | nextcloud Image name                          | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `image.tag`                         | nextcloud Image tag                           | `{VERSION}`                                             |
| `image.pullPolicy`                  | Image pull policy                             | `Always` if `imageTag` is `latest`, else `IfNotPresent` |
| `image.pullSecrets`                 | Specify image pull secrets                    | `nil`                                                   |
| `ingress.enabled`                   | Enable use of ingress controllers             | `false`                                                 |
| `ingress.servicePort`               | Ingress' backend servicePort                  | `http`                                                  |
| `ingress.annotations`               | An array of service annotations               | `nil`                                                   |
| `ingress.tls`                       | Ingress TLS configuration                     | `[]`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.host`                    | nextcloud host to create application URLs     | `nextcloud.kube.home`                                   |
| `nextcloud.username`                | User of the application                       | `admin`                                                 |
| `nextcloud.password`                | Application password                          | `changeme`                                              |
| `nextcloud.update`                  | Trigger update if custom command is used      | `0`                                                     |
| `nextcloud.datadir`                 | nextcloud data dir location                   | `/var/www/html/data`                                    |
| `nextcloud.tableprefix`             | nextcloud db table prefix                     | `''`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.mail.enabled`            | Whether to enable/disable email settings      | `false`                                                 |
| `nextcloud.mail.fromAddress`        | nextcloud mail send from field                | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.domain`             | nextcloud mail domain                         | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.host`          | SMTP hostname                                 | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.secure`        | SMTP connection `ssl` or empty                | `''`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.port`          | Optional SMTP port                            | `nil`                                                   |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.authtype`      | SMTP authentication method                    | `LOGIN`                                                 |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.name`          | SMTP username                                 | `''`                                                    |
| `nextcloud.mail.smtp.password`      | SMTP password                                 | `''`                                                    |
| `internalDatabase.enabled`          | Whether to use internal sqlite database       | `true`                                                  |
| `internalDatabase.database`         | Name of the existing database                 | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.enabled`          | Whether to use external database              | `false`                                                 |
| `externalDatabase.host`             | Host of the external database                 | `nil`                                                   |
| `externalDatabase.database`         | Name of the existing database                 | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.user`             | Existing username in the external db          | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `externalDatabase.password`         | Password for the above username               | `nil`                                                   |
| `mariadb.enabled`                   | Whether to use the MariaDB chart              | `false`                                                 |
| `mariadb.db.name`                   | Database name to create                       | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `mariadb.db.password`               | Password for the database                     | `changeme`                                              |
| `mariadb.db.user`                   | Database user to create                       | `nextcloud`                                             |
| `mariadb.rootUser.password`         | MariaDB admin password                        | `nil`                                                   |
| `redis.enabled`                     | Whether to install/use redis for locking      | `false`                                                 |
| `cronjob.enabled`                   | Whether to enable/disable cronjob             | `false`                                                 |
| `cronjob.schedule`                  | Schedule for the CronJob                      | `*/15 * * * *`                                          |
| `cronjob.annotations`               | Annotations to add to the cronjob             | {}                                                      |
| `cronjob.failedJobsHistoryLimit`    | Specify the number of failed Jobs to keep     | `5`                                                     |
| `cronjob.successfulJobsHistoryLimit`| Specify the number of completed Jobs to keep  | `2`                                                     |
| `service.type`                      | Kubernetes Service type                       | `ClusterIp`                                             |
| `service.loadBalancerIP`            | LoadBalancerIp for service type LoadBalancer  | `nil`                                                   |
| `persistence.enabled`               | Enable persistence using PVC                  | `false`                                                 |
| `persistence.storageClass`          | PVC Storage Class for nextcloud volume        | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `persistence.existingClaim`         | An Existing PVC name for nextcloud volume     | `nil` (uses alpha storage class annotation)             |
| `persistence.accessMode`            | PVC Access Mode for nextcloud volume          | `ReadWriteOnce`                                         |
| `persistence.size`                  | PVC Storage Request for nextcloud volume      | `8Gi`                                                   |
| `resources`                         | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits           | `{}`                                                    |
| `livenessProbe.enabled`             | Turn on and off liveness probe                | `true`                                                  |
| `livenessProbe.initialDelaySeconds` | Delay before liveness probe is initiated      | `30`                                                    |
| `livenessProbe.periodSeconds`       | How often to perform the probe                | `15`                                                    |
| `livenessProbe.timeoutSeconds`      | When the probe times out                      | `5`                                                     |
| `livenessProbe.failureThreshold`    | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe    | `3`                                                     |
| `livenessProbe.successThreshold`    | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe   | `1`                                                     |
| `readinessProbe.enabled`            | Turn on and off readiness probe               | `true`                                                  |
| `readinessProbe.initialDelaySeconds`| Delay before readiness probe is initiated     | `30`                                                    |
| `readinessProbe.periodSeconds`      | How often to perform the probe                | `15`                                                    |
| `readinessProbe.timeoutSeconds`     | When the probe times out                      | `5`                                                     |
| `readinessProbe.failureThreshold`   | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe    | `3`                                                     |
| `readinessProbe.successThreshold`   | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe   | `1`                                                     |

> **Note**:
>
> For nextcloud to function correctly, you should specify the `nextcloud.host` parameter to specify the FQDN (recommended) or the public IP address of the nextcloud service.
>
> Optionally, you can specify the `service.loadBalancerIP` parameter to assign a reserved IP address to the nextcloud service of the chart. However please note that this feature is only available on a few cloud providers (f.e. GKE).
>
> To reserve a public IP address on GKE:
>
> ```bash
> $ gcloud compute addresses create nextcloud-public-ip
> ```
>
> The reserved IP address can be associated to the nextcloud service by specifying it as the value of the `service.loadBalancerIP` parameter while installing the chart.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set nextcloud.username=admin,nextcloud.password=password,mariadb.rootUser.password=secretpassword \
    stable/nextcloud
```

The above command sets the nextcloud administrator account username and password to `admin` and `password` respectively. Additionally, it sets the MariaDB `root` user password to `secretpassword`.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/nextcloud
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Persistence

The [Nextcloud](https://hub.docker.com/_/nextcloud/) image stores the nextcloud data and configurations at the `/var/www/html` paths of the container.

Persistent Volume Claims are used to keep the data across deployments. This is known to work in GCE, AWS, and minikube.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section to enable persistence and configuration of the PVC.

## Cronjob

This chart can utilize Kubernetes `CronJob` resource to execute [background tasks](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration_server/background_jobs_configuration.html).

To use this functionality, set `cronjob.enabled` parameter to `true` and switch background mode to Webcron in your nextcloud settings page.
See the [Configuration](#configuration) section for further configuration of the cronjob resource.

> **Note**: For the cronjobs to work correctly, ingress must be also enabled (set `ingress.enabled` to `true`) and `nextcloud.host` has to be publicly resolvable.
