stable/nginx-ingress/README.md, before:

# nginx-ingress

[nginx-ingress](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) is an Ingress controller that uses ConfigMap to store the nginx configuration.

To use, add the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx` annotation to your Ingress resources.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps an nginx-ingress deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites
  - Kubernetes 1.6+

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/nginx-ingress
```

The command deploys nginx-ingress on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the nginx-ingress chart and their default values.

Parameter | Description | Default
--- | --- | ---
`controller.name` | name of the controller component | `controller`
`controller.image.repository` | controller container image repository | `quay.io/kubernetes-ingress-controller/nginx-ingress-controller`
`controller.image.tag` | controller container image tag | `0.24.1`
`controller.image.pullPolicy` | controller container image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`
`controller.image.runAsUser` | User ID of the controller process. Value depends on the Linux distribution used inside of the container image. By default uses debian one. | `33`
`controller.containerPort.http` | The port that the controller container listens on for http connections. | `80`
`controller.containerPort.https` | The port that the controller container listens on for https connections. | `443`
`controller.config` | nginx [ConfigMap](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/docs/user-guide/nginx-configuration/configmap.md) entries | none
`controller.hostNetwork` | If the nginx deployment / daemonset should run on the host's network namespace. Do not set this when `controller.service.externalIPs` is set and `kube-proxy` is used as there will be a port-conflict for port `80` | false
`controller.defaultBackendService` | default 404 backend service; required only if `defaultBackend.enabled = false` | `""`
`controller.dnsPolicy` | If using `hostNetwork=true`, change to `ClusterFirstWithHostNet`. See [pod's dns policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/#pod-s-dns-policy) for details | `ClusterFirst`
`controller.electionID` | election ID to use for the status update | `ingress-controller-leader`
`controller.extraEnvs` | any additional environment variables to set in the pods | `{}`
`controller.extraContainers` | Sidecar containers to add to the controller pod. See [LemonLDAP::NG controller](https://github.com/lemonldap-ng-controller/lemonldap-ng-controller) as example | `{}`
`controller.extraVolumeMounts` | Additional volumeMounts to the controller main container | `{}`
`controller.extraVolumes` | Additional volumes to the controller pod | `{}`
`controller.extraInitContainers` | Containers, which are run before the app containers are started | `[]`
`controller.ingressClass` | name of the ingress class to route through this controller | `nginx`
`controller.scope.enabled` | limit the scope of the ingress controller | `false` (watch all namespaces)
`controller.scope.namespace` | namespace to watch for ingress | `""` (use the release namespace)
`controller.extraArgs` | Additional controller container arguments | `{}`
`controller.kind` | install as Deployment or DaemonSet | `Deployment`
`controller.daemonset.useHostPort` | If `controller.kind` is `DaemonSet`, this will enable `hostPort` for TCP/80 and TCP/443 | false
`controller.daemonset.hostPorts.http` | If `controller.daemonset.useHostPort` is `true` and this is non-empty, it sets the hostPort | `"80"`
`controller.daemonset.hostPorts.https` | If `controller.daemonset.useHostPort` is `true` and this is non-empty, it sets the hostPort | `"443"`
`controller.daemonset.hostPorts.stats` | If `controller.daemonset.useHostPort` is `true` and this is non-empty, it sets the hostPort | `"18080"`
`controller.tolerations` | node taints to tolerate (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `[]`
`controller.affinity` | node/pod affinities (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `{}`
`controller.minReadySeconds` | how many seconds a pod needs to be ready before killing the next, during update | `0`
`controller.nodeSelector` | node labels for pod assignment | `{}`
`controller.podAnnotations` | annotations to be added to pods | `{}`
`controller.podLabels` | labels to add to the pod container metadata | `{}`
`controller.podSecurityContext` | Security context policies to add to the controller pod | `{}`
`controller.replicaCount` | desired number of controller pods | `1`
`controller.minAvailable` | minimum number of available controller pods for PodDisruptionBudget | `1`
`controller.resources` | controller pod resource requests & limits | `{}`
`controller.priorityClassName` | controller priorityClassName | `nil`
`controller.lifecycle` | controller pod lifecycle hooks | `{}`
`controller.service.annotations` | annotations for controller service | `{}`
`controller.service.labels` | labels for controller service | `{}`
`controller.publishService.enabled` | if true, the controller will set the endpoint records on the ingress objects to reflect those on the service | `false`
`controller.publishService.pathOverride` | override of the default publish-service name | `""`
`controller.service.clusterIP` | internal controller cluster service IP | `""`
`controller.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the controller service | `false`
`controller.service.externalIPs` | controller service external IP addresses. Do not set this when `controller.hostNetwork` is set to `true` and `kube-proxy` is used as there will be a port-conflict for port `80` | `[]`
`controller.service.externalTrafficPolicy` | If `controller.service.type` is `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer`, set this to `Local` to enable [source IP preservation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-typenodeport) | `"Cluster"`
`controller.service.healthCheckNodePort` | If `controller.service.type` is `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer` and `controller.service.externalTrafficPolicy` is set to `Local`, set this to [the managed health-check port the kube-proxy will expose](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-typenodeport). If blank, a random port in the `NodePort` range will be assigned | `""`
`controller.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`controller.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`controller.service.enableHttp` | if port 80 should be opened for service | `true`
`controller.service.enableHttps` | if port 443 should be opened for service | `true`
`controller.service.targetPorts.http` | Sets the targetPort that maps to the Ingress' port 80 | `80`
`controller.service.targetPorts.https` | Sets the targetPort that maps to the Ingress' port 443 | `443`
`controller.service.type` | type of controller service to create | `LoadBalancer`
`controller.service.nodePorts.http` | If `controller.service.type` is either `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer` and this is non-empty, it sets the nodePort that maps to the Ingress' port 80 | `""`
`controller.service.nodePorts.https` | If `controller.service.type` is either `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer` and this is non-empty, it sets the nodePort that maps to the Ingress' port 443 | `""`
`controller.livenessProbe.initialDelaySeconds` | Delay before liveness probe is initiated | 10
`controller.livenessProbe.periodSeconds` | How often to perform the probe | 10
`controller.livenessProbe.timeoutSeconds` | When the probe times out | 5
`controller.livenessProbe.successThreshold` | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. | 1
`controller.livenessProbe.failureThreshold` | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe to be considered failed after having succeeded. | 3
`controller.livenessProbe.port` | The port number that the liveness probe will listen on. | 10254
`controller.readinessProbe.initialDelaySeconds` | Delay before readiness probe is initiated | 10
`controller.readinessProbe.periodSeconds` | How often to perform the probe | 10
`controller.readinessProbe.timeoutSeconds` | When the probe times out | 1
`controller.readinessProbe.successThreshold` | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. | 1
`controller.readinessProbe.failureThreshold` | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe to be considered failed after having succeeded. | 3
`controller.readinessProbe.port` | The port number that the readiness probe will listen on. | 10254
`controller.stats.enabled` | if `true`, enable status page | `false`
`controller.stats.service.annotations` | annotations for controller stats service | `{}`
`controller.stats.service.clusterIP` | internal controller stats cluster service IP | `""`
`controller.stats.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the stats service | `false`
`controller.stats.service.externalIPs` | controller service stats external IP addresses | `[]`
`controller.stats.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`controller.stats.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`controller.stats.service.type` | type of controller stats service to create | `ClusterIP`
`controller.metrics.enabled` | if `true`, enable Prometheus metrics | `false`
`controller.metrics.service.annotations` | annotations for Prometheus metrics service | `{}`
`controller.metrics.service.clusterIP` | cluster IP address to assign to service | `""`
`controller.metrics.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the metrics service | `false`
`controller.metrics.service.externalIPs` | Prometheus metrics service external IP addresses | `[]`
`controller.metrics.service.labels` | labels for metrics service | `{}`
`controller.metrics.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`controller.metrics.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`controller.metrics.service.servicePort` | Prometheus metrics service port | `9913`
`controller.metrics.service.type` | type of Prometheus metrics service to create | `ClusterIP`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled` | Set this to `true` to create ServiceMonitor for Prometheus operator | `false`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.additionalLabels` | Additional labels that can be used so ServiceMonitor will be discovered by Prometheus | `{}`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.namespace` | namespace where servicemonitor resource should be created | `the same namespace as nginx ingress`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.honorLabels` | honorLabels chooses the metric's labels on collisions with target labels. | `false`
`controller.customTemplate.configMapName` | configMap containing a custom nginx template | `""`
`controller.customTemplate.configMapKey` | configMap key containing the nginx template | `""`
`controller.headers` | configMap key:value pairs containing the [custom headers](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/tree/master/docs/examples/customization/custom-headers) for Nginx | `{}`
`controller.updateStrategy` | allows setting of RollingUpdate strategy | `{}`
`defaultBackend.enabled` | If false, controller.defaultBackendService must be provided | `true`
`defaultBackend.name` | name of the default backend component | `default-backend`
`defaultBackend.image.repository` | default backend container image repository | `k8s.gcr.io/defaultbackend-amd64`
`defaultBackend.image.tag` | default backend container image tag | `1.5`
`defaultBackend.image.pullPolicy` | default backend container image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`
`defaultBackend.image.runAsUser` | User ID of the controller process. Value depends on the Linux distribution used inside of the container image. By default uses nobody user. | `65534`
`defaultBackend.extraArgs` | Additional default backend container arguments | `{}`
`defaultBackend.port` | Http port number | `8080`
`defaultBackend.tolerations` | node taints to tolerate (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `[]`
`defaultBackend.affinity` | node/pod affinities (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `{}`
`defaultBackend.nodeSelector` | node labels for pod assignment | `{}`
`defaultBackend.podAnnotations` | annotations to be added to pods | `{}`
`defaultBackend.podLabels` | labels to add to the pod container metadata | `{}`
`defaultBackend.replicaCount` | desired number of default backend pods | `1`
`defaultBackend.minAvailable` | minimum number of available default backend pods for PodDisruptionBudget | `1`
`defaultBackend.resources` | default backend pod resource requests & limits | `{}`
`defaultBackend.priorityClassName` | default backend  priorityClassName | `nil`
`defaultBackend.podSecurityContext` | Security context policies to add to the default backend | `{}`
`defaultBackend.service.annotations` | annotations for default backend service | `{}`
`defaultBackend.service.clusterIP` | internal default backend cluster service IP | `""`
`defaultBackend.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the default backend service | `false`
`defaultBackend.service.externalIPs` | default backend service external IP addresses | `[]`
`defaultBackend.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`defaultBackend.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`defaultBackend.service.type` | type of default backend service to create | `ClusterIP`
`imagePullSecrets` | name of Secret resource containing private registry credentials | `nil`
`rbac.create` | if `true`, create & use RBAC resources | `true`
`podSecurityPolicy.enabled` | if `true`, create & use Pod Security Policy resources | `false`
`serviceAccount.create` | if `true`, create a service account | ``
`serviceAccount.name` | The name of the service account to use. If not set and `create` is `true`, a name is generated using the fullname template. | ``
`revisionHistoryLimit` | The number of old history to retain to allow rollback. | `10`
`tcp` | TCP service key:value pairs. The value is evaluated as a template. | `{}`
`udp` | UDP service key:value pairs The value is evaluated as a template. | `{}`

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --name my-release \
    --set controller.stats.enabled=true
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --name my-release -f values.yaml
```

A useful trick to debug issues with ingress is to increase the logLevel
as described [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/docs/troubleshooting.md#debug)

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --set controller.extraArgs.v=2
```
> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## PodDisruptionBudget
Note that the PodDisruptionBudget resource will only be defined if the replicaCount is greater than one,
else it would make it impossible to evacuate a node. See [gh issue #7127](https://github.com/helm/charts/issues/7127) for more info.

## Prometheus Metrics

The Nginx ingress controller can export Prometheus metrics.

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --name my-release \
    --set controller.metrics.enabled=true
```

You can add Prometheus annotations to the metrics service using `controller.metrics.service.annotations`. Alternatively, if you use the Prometheus Operator, you can enable ServiceMonitor creation using `controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled`.

## ExternalDNS Service configuration

Add an [ExternalDNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/external-dns) annotation to the LoadBalancer service:

```yaml
controller:
  service:
    annotations:
      external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname: kubernetes-example.com.
```

## AWS L7 ELB with SSL Termination

Annotate the controller as shown in the [nginx-ingress l7 patch](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/deploy/provider/aws/service-l7.yaml):

```yaml
controller:
  service:
    targetPorts:
      http: http
      https: http
    annotations:
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-cert: arn:aws:acm:XX-XXXX-X:XXXXXXXXX:certificate/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXX
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-backend-protocol: "http"
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-ports: "https"
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-connection-idle-timeout: '3600'
```

## AWS route53-mapper

To configure the LoadBalancer service with the [route53-mapper addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/route53-mapper), add the `domainName` annotation and `dns` label:

```yaml
controller:
  service:
    labels:
      dns: "route53"
    annotations:
      domainName: "kubernetes-example.com"
```

## Helm error when upgrading: spec.clusterIP: Invalid value: ""

If you are upgrading this chart from a version between 0.31.0 and 1.2.2 then you may get an error like this:

```
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: Service "?????-controller" is invalid: spec.clusterIP: Invalid value: "": field is immutable
```

Detail of how and why are in [this issue](https://github.com/helm/charts/pull/13646) but to resolve this you can set `xxxx.service.omitClusterIP` to `true` where `xxxx` is the service referenced in the error.

Commit message:

Add report node internal ip when host network was enabled (#14991)
Signed-off-by: Aisuko <urakiny@gmail.com>

stable/nginx-ingress/README.md, after:

# nginx-ingress

[nginx-ingress](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) is an Ingress controller that uses ConfigMap to store the nginx configuration.

To use, add the `kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx` annotation to your Ingress resources.

## TL;DR;

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps an nginx-ingress deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites
  - Kubernetes 1.6+

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/nginx-ingress
```

The command deploys nginx-ingress on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the nginx-ingress chart and their default values.

Parameter | Description | Default
--- | --- | ---
`controller.name` | name of the controller component | `controller`
`controller.image.repository` | controller container image repository | `quay.io/kubernetes-ingress-controller/nginx-ingress-controller`
`controller.image.tag` | controller container image tag | `0.24.1`
`controller.image.pullPolicy` | controller container image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`
`controller.image.runAsUser` | User ID of the controller process. Value depends on the Linux distribution used inside of the container image. By default uses debian one. | `33`
`controller.containerPort.http` | The port that the controller container listens on for http connections. | `80`
`controller.containerPort.https` | The port that the controller container listens on for https connections. | `443`
`controller.config` | nginx [ConfigMap](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/docs/user-guide/nginx-configuration/configmap.md) entries | none
`controller.hostNetwork` | If the nginx deployment / daemonset should run on the host's network namespace. Do not set this when `controller.service.externalIPs` is set and `kube-proxy` is used as there will be a port-conflict for port `80` | false
`controller.defaultBackendService` | default 404 backend service; required only if `defaultBackend.enabled = false` | `""`
`controller.dnsPolicy` | If using `hostNetwork=true`, change to `ClusterFirstWithHostNet`. See [pod's dns policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/#pod-s-dns-policy) for details | `ClusterFirst`
`controller.reportNodeInternalIp` | If using `hostNetwork=true`, setting `reportNodeInternalIp=true`, will pass the flag `report-node-internal-ip-address` to nginx-ingress. This sets the status of all Ingress objects to the internal IP address of all nodes running the NGINX Ingress controller.
`controller.electionID` | election ID to use for the status update | `ingress-controller-leader`
`controller.extraEnvs` | any additional environment variables to set in the pods | `{}`
`controller.extraContainers` | Sidecar containers to add to the controller pod. See [LemonLDAP::NG controller](https://github.com/lemonldap-ng-controller/lemonldap-ng-controller) as example | `{}`
`controller.extraVolumeMounts` | Additional volumeMounts to the controller main container | `{}`
`controller.extraVolumes` | Additional volumes to the controller pod | `{}`
`controller.extraInitContainers` | Containers, which are run before the app containers are started | `[]`
`controller.ingressClass` | name of the ingress class to route through this controller | `nginx`
`controller.scope.enabled` | limit the scope of the ingress controller | `false` (watch all namespaces)
`controller.scope.namespace` | namespace to watch for ingress | `""` (use the release namespace)
`controller.extraArgs` | Additional controller container arguments | `{}`
`controller.kind` | install as Deployment or DaemonSet | `Deployment`
`controller.daemonset.useHostPort` | If `controller.kind` is `DaemonSet`, this will enable `hostPort` for TCP/80 and TCP/443 | false
`controller.daemonset.hostPorts.http` | If `controller.daemonset.useHostPort` is `true` and this is non-empty, it sets the hostPort | `"80"`
`controller.daemonset.hostPorts.https` | If `controller.daemonset.useHostPort` is `true` and this is non-empty, it sets the hostPort | `"443"`
`controller.daemonset.hostPorts.stats` | If `controller.daemonset.useHostPort` is `true` and this is non-empty, it sets the hostPort | `"18080"`
`controller.tolerations` | node taints to tolerate (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `[]`
`controller.affinity` | node/pod affinities (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `{}`
`controller.minReadySeconds` | how many seconds a pod needs to be ready before killing the next, during update | `0`
`controller.nodeSelector` | node labels for pod assignment | `{}`
`controller.podAnnotations` | annotations to be added to pods | `{}`
`controller.podLabels` | labels to add to the pod container metadata | `{}`
`controller.podSecurityContext` | Security context policies to add to the controller pod | `{}`
`controller.replicaCount` | desired number of controller pods | `1`
`controller.minAvailable` | minimum number of available controller pods for PodDisruptionBudget | `1`
`controller.resources` | controller pod resource requests & limits | `{}`
`controller.priorityClassName` | controller priorityClassName | `nil`
`controller.lifecycle` | controller pod lifecycle hooks | `{}`
`controller.service.annotations` | annotations for controller service | `{}`
`controller.service.labels` | labels for controller service | `{}`
`controller.publishService.enabled` | if true, the controller will set the endpoint records on the ingress objects to reflect those on the service | `false`
`controller.publishService.pathOverride` | override of the default publish-service name | `""`
`controller.service.clusterIP` | internal controller cluster service IP | `""`
`controller.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the controller service | `false`
`controller.service.externalIPs` | controller service external IP addresses. Do not set this when `controller.hostNetwork` is set to `true` and `kube-proxy` is used as there will be a port-conflict for port `80` | `[]`
`controller.service.externalTrafficPolicy` | If `controller.service.type` is `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer`, set this to `Local` to enable [source IP preservation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-typenodeport) | `"Cluster"`
`controller.service.healthCheckNodePort` | If `controller.service.type` is `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer` and `controller.service.externalTrafficPolicy` is set to `Local`, set this to [the managed health-check port the kube-proxy will expose](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-typenodeport). If blank, a random port in the `NodePort` range will be assigned | `""`
`controller.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`controller.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`controller.service.enableHttp` | if port 80 should be opened for service | `true`
`controller.service.enableHttps` | if port 443 should be opened for service | `true`
`controller.service.targetPorts.http` | Sets the targetPort that maps to the Ingress' port 80 | `80`
`controller.service.targetPorts.https` | Sets the targetPort that maps to the Ingress' port 443 | `443`
`controller.service.type` | type of controller service to create | `LoadBalancer`
`controller.service.nodePorts.http` | If `controller.service.type` is either `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer` and this is non-empty, it sets the nodePort that maps to the Ingress' port 80 | `""`
`controller.service.nodePorts.https` | If `controller.service.type` is either `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer` and this is non-empty, it sets the nodePort that maps to the Ingress' port 443 | `""`
`controller.livenessProbe.initialDelaySeconds` | Delay before liveness probe is initiated | 10
`controller.livenessProbe.periodSeconds` | How often to perform the probe | 10
`controller.livenessProbe.timeoutSeconds` | When the probe times out | 5
`controller.livenessProbe.successThreshold` | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. | 1
`controller.livenessProbe.failureThreshold` | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe to be considered failed after having succeeded. | 3
`controller.livenessProbe.port` | The port number that the liveness probe will listen on. | 10254
`controller.readinessProbe.initialDelaySeconds` | Delay before readiness probe is initiated | 10
`controller.readinessProbe.periodSeconds` | How often to perform the probe | 10
`controller.readinessProbe.timeoutSeconds` | When the probe times out | 1
`controller.readinessProbe.successThreshold` | Minimum consecutive successes for the probe to be considered successful after having failed. | 1
`controller.readinessProbe.failureThreshold` | Minimum consecutive failures for the probe to be considered failed after having succeeded. | 3
`controller.readinessProbe.port` | The port number that the readiness probe will listen on. | 10254
`controller.stats.enabled` | if `true`, enable status page | `false`
`controller.stats.service.annotations` | annotations for controller stats service | `{}`
`controller.stats.service.clusterIP` | internal controller stats cluster service IP | `""`
`controller.stats.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the stats service | `false`
`controller.stats.service.externalIPs` | controller service stats external IP addresses | `[]`
`controller.stats.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`controller.stats.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`controller.stats.service.type` | type of controller stats service to create | `ClusterIP`
`controller.metrics.enabled` | if `true`, enable Prometheus metrics | `false`
`controller.metrics.service.annotations` | annotations for Prometheus metrics service | `{}`
`controller.metrics.service.clusterIP` | cluster IP address to assign to service | `""`
`controller.metrics.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the metrics service | `false`
`controller.metrics.service.externalIPs` | Prometheus metrics service external IP addresses | `[]`
`controller.metrics.service.labels` | labels for metrics service | `{}`
`controller.metrics.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`controller.metrics.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`controller.metrics.service.servicePort` | Prometheus metrics service port | `9913`
`controller.metrics.service.type` | type of Prometheus metrics service to create | `ClusterIP`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled` | Set this to `true` to create ServiceMonitor for Prometheus operator | `false`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.additionalLabels` | Additional labels that can be used so ServiceMonitor will be discovered by Prometheus | `{}`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.namespace` | namespace where servicemonitor resource should be created | `the same namespace as nginx ingress`
`controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.honorLabels` | honorLabels chooses the metric's labels on collisions with target labels. | `false`
`controller.customTemplate.configMapName` | configMap containing a custom nginx template | `""`
`controller.customTemplate.configMapKey` | configMap key containing the nginx template | `""`
`controller.headers` | configMap key:value pairs containing the [custom headers](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/tree/master/docs/examples/customization/custom-headers) for Nginx | `{}`
`controller.updateStrategy` | allows setting of RollingUpdate strategy | `{}`
`defaultBackend.enabled` | If false, controller.defaultBackendService must be provided | `true`
`defaultBackend.name` | name of the default backend component | `default-backend`
`defaultBackend.image.repository` | default backend container image repository | `k8s.gcr.io/defaultbackend-amd64`
`defaultBackend.image.tag` | default backend container image tag | `1.5`
`defaultBackend.image.pullPolicy` | default backend container image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`
`defaultBackend.image.runAsUser` | User ID of the controller process. Value depends on the Linux distribution used inside of the container image. By default uses nobody user. | `65534`
`defaultBackend.extraArgs` | Additional default backend container arguments | `{}`
`defaultBackend.port` | Http port number | `8080`
`defaultBackend.tolerations` | node taints to tolerate (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `[]`
`defaultBackend.affinity` | node/pod affinities (requires Kubernetes >=1.6) | `{}`
`defaultBackend.nodeSelector` | node labels for pod assignment | `{}`
`defaultBackend.podAnnotations` | annotations to be added to pods | `{}`
`defaultBackend.podLabels` | labels to add to the pod container metadata | `{}`
`defaultBackend.replicaCount` | desired number of default backend pods | `1`
`defaultBackend.minAvailable` | minimum number of available default backend pods for PodDisruptionBudget | `1`
`defaultBackend.resources` | default backend pod resource requests & limits | `{}`
`defaultBackend.priorityClassName` | default backend  priorityClassName | `nil`
`defaultBackend.podSecurityContext` | Security context policies to add to the default backend | `{}`
`defaultBackend.service.annotations` | annotations for default backend service | `{}`
`defaultBackend.service.clusterIP` | internal default backend cluster service IP | `""`
`defaultBackend.service.omitClusterIP` | To omit the `clusterIP` from the default backend service | `false`
`defaultBackend.service.externalIPs` | default backend service external IP addresses | `[]`
`defaultBackend.service.loadBalancerIP` | IP address to assign to load balancer (if supported) | `""`
`defaultBackend.service.loadBalancerSourceRanges` | list of IP CIDRs allowed access to load balancer (if supported) | `[]`
`defaultBackend.service.type` | type of default backend service to create | `ClusterIP`
`imagePullSecrets` | name of Secret resource containing private registry credentials | `nil`
`rbac.create` | if `true`, create & use RBAC resources | `true`
`podSecurityPolicy.enabled` | if `true`, create & use Pod Security Policy resources | `false`
`serviceAccount.create` | if `true`, create a service account | ``
`serviceAccount.name` | The name of the service account to use. If not set and `create` is `true`, a name is generated using the fullname template. | ``
`revisionHistoryLimit` | The number of old history to retain to allow rollback. | `10`
`tcp` | TCP service key:value pairs. The value is evaluated as a template. | `{}`
`udp` | UDP service key:value pairs The value is evaluated as a template. | `{}`

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --name my-release \
    --set controller.stats.enabled=true
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --name my-release -f values.yaml
```

A useful trick to debug issues with ingress is to increase the logLevel
as described [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/docs/troubleshooting.md#debug)

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --set controller.extraArgs.v=2
```
> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## PodDisruptionBudget
Note that the PodDisruptionBudget resource will only be defined if the replicaCount is greater than one,
else it would make it impossible to evacuate a node. See [gh issue #7127](https://github.com/helm/charts/issues/7127) for more info.

## Prometheus Metrics

The Nginx ingress controller can export Prometheus metrics.

```console
$ helm install stable/nginx-ingress --name my-release \
    --set controller.metrics.enabled=true
```

You can add Prometheus annotations to the metrics service using `controller.metrics.service.annotations`. Alternatively, if you use the Prometheus Operator, you can enable ServiceMonitor creation using `controller.metrics.serviceMonitor.enabled`.

## ExternalDNS Service configuration

Add an [ExternalDNS](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/external-dns) annotation to the LoadBalancer service:

```yaml
controller:
  service:
    annotations:
      external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname: kubernetes-example.com.
```

## AWS L7 ELB with SSL Termination

Annotate the controller as shown in the [nginx-ingress l7 patch](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/master/deploy/provider/aws/service-l7.yaml):

```yaml
controller:
  service:
    targetPorts:
      http: http
      https: http
    annotations:
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-cert: arn:aws:acm:XX-XXXX-X:XXXXXXXXX:certificate/XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXX
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-backend-protocol: "http"
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-ssl-ports: "https"
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-connection-idle-timeout: '3600'
```

## AWS route53-mapper

To configure the LoadBalancer service with the [route53-mapper addon](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/tree/master/addons/route53-mapper), add the `domainName` annotation and `dns` label:

```yaml
controller:
  service:
    labels:
      dns: "route53"
    annotations:
      domainName: "kubernetes-example.com"
```

## Helm error when upgrading: spec.clusterIP: Invalid value: ""

If you are upgrading this chart from a version between 0.31.0 and 1.2.2 then you may get an error like this:

```
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: Service "?????-controller" is invalid: spec.clusterIP: Invalid value: "": field is immutable
```

Detail of how and why are in [this issue](https://github.com/helm/charts/pull/13646) but to resolve this you can set `xxxx.service.omitClusterIP` to `true` where `xxxx` is the service referenced in the error.
