incubator/buzzfeed-sso/README.md, before:

# Buzzfeed SSO

Single sign-on for your Kubernetes services using Google OAuth (more providers are welcomed)

[Blogpost](https://tech.buzzfeed.com/unleashing-the-a6a1a5da39d6?gi=e6db395406ae)
[Quickstart guide](https://github.com/buzzfeed/sso/blob/master/docs/quickstart.md)
[SSO in Kubernetes with Google Auth](https://medium.com/@while1eq1/single-sign-on-for-internal-apps-in-kubernetes-using-google-oauth-sso-2386a34bc433)
[Repo](https://github.com/buzzfeed/sso)

This helm chart is heavily inspired in [Buzzfeed's example](https://github.com/buzzfeed/sso/tree/master/quickstart/kubernetes), and provides a way of protecting Kubernetes services that have no authentication layer globally from a single OAuth proxy.

Many of the Kubernetes OAuth solutions require to run an extra container within the pod using [oauth2_proxy](https://github.com/bitly/oauth2_proxy), but the project seems to not be maintained anymore. The approach presented on this chart allows to have a global OAuth2 Proxy that can protect services even in different namespaces, thanks to [Kube DNS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/).

We use this chart in production at [MindDoc](https://minddoc.de) for protecting endpoints that have no built-in authentication (or that would require to run inner containers), like `Kibana`, `Prometheus`, etc...

## Introduction

This chart creates a SSO deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io)
cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.8+ with Beta APIs enabled
- Kube DNS

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

The command deploys SSO on the Kubernetes cluster using the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

This chart has required variables, see [Configuration](#configuration).

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```bash
$ helm delete --purge my-release
```
The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the SSO chart and their default/required values.

Parameter | Description | Default
--- | --- | ---
`namespace` | namespace to use | `default`
`emailDomain` | the sso email domain for authentication | REQUIRED
`rootDomain` | the parent domain used for protecting your backends | REQUIRED
`cluster` | the cluster name for SSO | `dev`
`auth.annotations` | extra annotations for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.domain` | the auth domain used for OAuth callbacks | REQUIRED
`auth.extraEnv` | extra auth env vars | `[]`
`auth.replicaCount` | desired number of auth pods | `1`
`auth.resources` | resource limits and requests for auth pods | `{ limits: { memory: "256Mi", cpu: "200m" }}`
`auth.nodeSelector` | node selector logic for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.tolerations` | resource tolerations for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.affinity` | node affinity for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.service.type` | type of auth service to create | `ClusterIP`
`auth.service.port` | port for the http auth service | `80`
`auth.secret` | secrets to be generated randomly with `openssl rand -base64 32 | head -c 32`. | REQUIRED if `auth.customSecret` is not set
`auth.tls` | tls configuration for central sso auth ingress. | `{}`
`auth.customSecret` | the secret key to reuse (avoids secret creation via helm) | REQUIRED if `auth.secret` is not set
`proxy.annotations` | extra annotations for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.providerUrlInternal` | url for split dns deployments |
`proxy.extraEnv` | extra proxy env vars | `[]`
`proxy.replicaCount` | desired number of proxy pods | `1`
`proxy.resources` | resource limits and requests for proxy pods | `{ limits: { memory: "256Mi", cpu: "200m" }}`
`proxy.nodeSelector` | node selector logic for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.tolerations` | resource tolerations for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.affinity` | node affinity for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.service.type` | type of proxy service to create | `ClusterIP`
`proxy.service.port` | port for the http proxy service | `80`
`proxy.secret` | secrets to be generated randomly with `openssl rand -base64 32 | head -c 32 | base64`. | REQUIRED if `proxy.customSecret` is not set
`proxy.customSecret` | the secret key to reuse (avoids secret creation via helm) | REQUIRED if `proxy.secret` is not set
`provider.google` | the Oauth provider to use (only Google support for now) | REQUIRED
`provider.google.adminEmail` | the Google admin email | `undefined`
`provider.google.secret` | the Google OAuth secrets | REQUIRED if `provider.google.customSecret` is not set
`provider.google.customSecret` | the secret key to reuse instead of creating it via helm | REQUIRED if `provider.google.secret` is not set
`image.repository` | container image repository | `buzzfeed/sso`
`image.tag` | container image tag | `v1.2.0`
`image.pullPolicy` | container image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`
`ingress.annotations` | ingress load balancer annotations | `{}`
`ingress.extraLabels` | extra ingress labels | `{}`
`ingress.hosts` | proxied hosts | `[]`
`ingress.tls` | tls certificates for the proxied hosts | `[]`
`upstreams` | configuration of services that use sso | `[]`

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release \
    --set key_1=value_1,key_2=value_2 \
    stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

> **Tip**: This will merge parameters with [values.yaml](values.yaml), which does not specify all the required values

### Example

**NEVER expose your `auth.secret`, `proxy.secret`, `provider.google.clientId`, `provider.google.clientSecret` and `provider.google.serviceAccount`.** Always keep them in a safe place and do not push them to any repository. As values are merged, you can always generate a different `.yaml` file. For instance:

```yaml
# values.yaml
emailDomain: 'email.coolcompany.foo'

rootDomain: 'coolcompany.foo'

auth:
  domain: sso-auth.coolcompany.foo

proxy:
  cluster: dev

google:
  adminEmail: iamtheadmin@email.coolcompany.foo
```

```yaml
# secrets.yaml
auth:
 secret:
    codeSecret: 'randomSecret1'
    cookieSecret: 'randomSecret2'

proxy:
  secret:
    clientId: 'randomSecret3'
    clientSecret: 'randomSecret4'
    cookieSecret: 'randomSecret6'

google:
  secret:
    clientId: 'googleSecret!'
    clientSecret: 'evenMoreSecret'
    serviceAccount: '{ <json content super secret> }'
```

Therefore, you could push your own `values.yaml` to a repo and keep `secrets.yaml` locally safe, and then install/update the chart:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml -f secrets.yaml stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

Alternatively, you can specify your own secret key, if you have already created it in the cluster. The secret should follow the data format defined in `secret.yaml` (auth and proxy) and `google-secret.yaml` (google provider).

```yaml
# values.yaml
emailDomain: 'email.coolcompany.foo'

rootDomain: 'coolcompany.foo'

auth:
  domain: sso-auth.coolcompany.foo
  customSecret: my-sso-auth-secret

proxy:
  cluster: dev
  customSecret: my-sso-proxy-secret

provider:
  google:
    adminEmail: iamtheadmin@email.coolcompany.foo
    customSecret: my-sso-google-secret
```

## Updating the Chart

You can update the chart values and trigger a pod reload. If the configmap changes, it will automatically retrieve the new values.

```bash
$ helm upgrade -f values.yaml my-release stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

Commit message:

[incubator/buzzfeed-sso] Add ability to add whitelisted emails (#13648)
* Rebase to latest master

Signed-off-by: StiviiK <stefan.kuerzeder@gmail.com>

* Bumped chart version

Signed-off-by: StiviiK <stefan.kuerzeder@gmail.com>

incubator/buzzfeed-sso/README.md, after:

# Buzzfeed SSO

Single sign-on for your Kubernetes services using Google OAuth (more providers are welcomed)

[Blogpost](https://tech.buzzfeed.com/unleashing-the-a6a1a5da39d6?gi=e6db395406ae)
[Quickstart guide](https://github.com/buzzfeed/sso/blob/master/docs/quickstart.md)
[SSO in Kubernetes with Google Auth](https://medium.com/@while1eq1/single-sign-on-for-internal-apps-in-kubernetes-using-google-oauth-sso-2386a34bc433)
[Repo](https://github.com/buzzfeed/sso)

This helm chart is heavily inspired in [Buzzfeed's example](https://github.com/buzzfeed/sso/tree/master/quickstart/kubernetes), and provides a way of protecting Kubernetes services that have no authentication layer globally from a single OAuth proxy.

Many of the Kubernetes OAuth solutions require to run an extra container within the pod using [oauth2_proxy](https://github.com/bitly/oauth2_proxy), but the project seems to not be maintained anymore. The approach presented on this chart allows to have a global OAuth2 Proxy that can protect services even in different namespaces, thanks to [Kube DNS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/).

We use this chart in production at [MindDoc](https://minddoc.de) for protecting endpoints that have no built-in authentication (or that would require to run inner containers), like `Kibana`, `Prometheus`, etc...

## Introduction

This chart creates a SSO deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io)
cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.8+ with Beta APIs enabled
- Kube DNS

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

The command deploys SSO on the Kubernetes cluster using the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

This chart has required variables, see [Configuration](#configuration).

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```bash
$ helm delete --purge my-release
```
The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the SSO chart and their default/required values.

Parameter | Description | Default
--- | --- | ---
`namespace` | namespace to use | `default`
`emailDomain` | the sso email domain for authentication | REQUIRED
`rootDomain` | the parent domain used for protecting your backends | REQUIRED
`whitelistedEmails` | comma-seperated list of emails which should be whitelisted | OPTIONAL
`cluster` | the cluster name for SSO | `dev`
`auth.annotations` | extra annotations for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.domain` | the auth domain used for OAuth callbacks | REQUIRED
`auth.extraEnv` | extra auth env vars | `[]`
`auth.replicaCount` | desired number of auth pods | `1`
`auth.resources` | resource limits and requests for auth pods | `{ limits: { memory: "256Mi", cpu: "200m" }}`
`auth.nodeSelector` | node selector logic for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.tolerations` | resource tolerations for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.affinity` | node affinity for auth pods | `{}`
`auth.service.type` | type of auth service to create | `ClusterIP`
`auth.service.port` | port for the http auth service | `80`
`auth.secret` | secrets to be generated randomly with `openssl rand -base64 32 | head -c 32`. | REQUIRED if `auth.customSecret` is not set
`auth.tls` | tls configuration for central sso auth ingress. | `{}`
`auth.customSecret` | the secret key to reuse (avoids secret creation via helm) | REQUIRED if `auth.secret` is not set
`proxy.annotations` | extra annotations for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.providerUrlInternal` | url for split dns deployments |
`proxy.extraEnv` | extra proxy env vars | `[]`
`proxy.replicaCount` | desired number of proxy pods | `1`
`proxy.resources` | resource limits and requests for proxy pods | `{ limits: { memory: "256Mi", cpu: "200m" }}`
`proxy.nodeSelector` | node selector logic for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.tolerations` | resource tolerations for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.affinity` | node affinity for proxy pods | `{}`
`proxy.service.type` | type of proxy service to create | `ClusterIP`
`proxy.service.port` | port for the http proxy service | `80`
`proxy.secret` | secrets to be generated randomly with `openssl rand -base64 32 | head -c 32 | base64`. | REQUIRED if `proxy.customSecret` is not set
`proxy.customSecret` | the secret key to reuse (avoids secret creation via helm) | REQUIRED if `proxy.secret` is not set
`provider.google` | the Oauth provider to use (only Google support for now) | REQUIRED
`provider.google.adminEmail` | the Google admin email | `undefined`
`provider.google.secret` | the Google OAuth secrets | REQUIRED if `provider.google.customSecret` is not set
`provider.google.customSecret` | the secret key to reuse instead of creating it via helm | REQUIRED if `provider.google.secret` is not set
`image.repository` | container image repository | `buzzfeed/sso`
`image.tag` | container image tag | `v1.2.0`
`image.pullPolicy` | container image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`
`ingress.annotations` | ingress load balancer annotations | `{}`
`ingress.extraLabels` | extra ingress labels | `{}`
`ingress.hosts` | proxied hosts | `[]`
`ingress.tls` | tls certificates for the proxied hosts | `[]`
`upstreams` | configuration of services that use sso | `[]`

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release \
    --set key_1=value_1,key_2=value_2 \
    stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

> **Tip**: This will merge parameters with [values.yaml](values.yaml), which does not specify all the required values

### Example

**NEVER expose your `auth.secret`, `proxy.secret`, `provider.google.clientId`, `provider.google.clientSecret` and `provider.google.serviceAccount`.** Always keep them in a safe place and do not push them to any repository. As values are merged, you can always generate a different `.yaml` file. For instance:

```yaml
# values.yaml
emailDomain: 'email.coolcompany.foo'

rootDomain: 'coolcompany.foo'

auth:
  domain: sso-auth.coolcompany.foo

proxy:
  cluster: dev

google:
  adminEmail: iamtheadmin@email.coolcompany.foo
```

```yaml
# secrets.yaml
auth:
 secret:
    codeSecret: 'randomSecret1'
    cookieSecret: 'randomSecret2'

proxy:
  secret:
    clientId: 'randomSecret3'
    clientSecret: 'randomSecret4'
    cookieSecret: 'randomSecret6'

google:
  secret:
    clientId: 'googleSecret!'
    clientSecret: 'evenMoreSecret'
    serviceAccount: '{ <json content super secret> }'
```

Therefore, you could push your own `values.yaml` to a repo and keep `secrets.yaml` locally safe, and then install/update the chart:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml -f secrets.yaml stable/buzzfeed-sso
```

Alternatively, you can specify your own secret key, if you have already created it in the cluster. The secret should follow the data format defined in `secret.yaml` (auth and proxy) and `google-secret.yaml` (google provider).

```yaml
# values.yaml
emailDomain: 'email.coolcompany.foo'

rootDomain: 'coolcompany.foo'

auth:
  domain: sso-auth.coolcompany.foo
  customSecret: my-sso-auth-secret

proxy:
  cluster: dev
  customSecret: my-sso-proxy-secret

provider:
  google:
    adminEmail: iamtheadmin@email.coolcompany.foo
    customSecret: my-sso-google-secret
```

## Updating the Chart

You can update the chart values and trigger a pod reload. If the configmap changes, it will automatically retrieve the new values.

```bash
$ helm upgrade -f values.yaml my-release stable/buzzfeed-sso
```
