stable/phpmyadmin/README.md, before:

# phpMyAdmin

[phpMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/) is a free and open source administration tool for MySQL and MariaDB. As a portable web application written primarily in PHP, it has become one of the most popular MySQL administration tools, especially for web hosting services.

## TL;DR

```console
$ helm install stable/phpmyadmin
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [phpMyAdmin](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-phpmyadmin) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

Bitnami charts can be used with [Kubeapps](https://kubeapps.com/) for deployment and management of Helm Charts in clusters. This chart has been tested to work with NGINX Ingress, cert-manager, fluentd and Prometheus on top of the [BKPR](https://kubeprod.io/).

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.8+ with Beta APIs enabled

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/phpmyadmin
```

The command deploys phpMyAdmin on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the phpMyAdmin chart and their default values.

|         Parameter          |               Description                |                         Default                         |
|----------------------------|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `global.imageRegistry`     | Global Docker image registry             | `nil`                                                   |
| `global.imagePullSecrets`  | Global Docker registry secret names as an array | `[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods) |
| `image.registry`           | phpMyAdmin image registry                | `docker.io`                                             |
| `image.repository`         | phpMyAdmin image name                    | `bitnami/phpmyadmin`                                    |
| `image.tag`                | phpMyAdmin image tag                     | `{VERSION}`                                             |
| `image.pullPolicy`         | Image pull policy                        | `IfNotPresent`                                          |
| `image.pullSecrets`        | Specify docker-registry secret names as an array               | `[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods)                                                   |
| `service.type`             | Type of service for phpMyAdmin frontend  | `ClusterIP`                                             |
| `service.port`             | Port to expose service                   | `80`                                                    |
| `db.port`                  | Database port to use to connect          | `3306`                                                  |
| `db.chartName`             | Database suffix if included in the same release | `nil`                                            |
| `db.host`                  | Database host to connect to              | `nil`                                                   |
| `db.bundleTestDB`                  | Deploy a MariaDB instance for testing purposes              | `false`                                                   |
| `ingress.enabled`          | Ingress resource to be added             | `false`                                                 |
| `ingress.annotations`      | Ingress annotations                      | `{ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /,    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /}`          |
| `ingress.path`             | Path to access frontend                  | `/`                                                     |
| `ingress.host`             | Ingress host                             | `nil`                                                   |
| `ingress.tls`              | TLS for ingress                          | `[]`                                                    |
| `resources`                | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits      | `{}`                                                    |
| `nodeSelector`             | Node labels for pod assignment           | `{}`                                                    |
| `tolerations`              | List of node taints to tolerate          | `[]`                                                    |
| `affinity`                 | Map of node/pod affinities               | `{}`                                                    |
| `podAnnotations`                | Pod annotations                                   | `{}`                                                       |
| `metrics.enabled`                          | Start a side-car prometheus exporter                                                                           | `false`                                              |
| `metrics.image.registry`                   | Apache exporter image registry                                                                                  | `docker.io`                                          |
| `metrics.image.repository`                 | Apache exporter image name                                                                                      | `lusotycoon/apache-exporter`                           |
| `metrics.image.tag`                        | Apache exporter image tag                                                                                       | `v0.5.0`                                            |
| `metrics.image.pullPolicy`                 | Image pull policy                                                                                              | `IfNotPresent`                                       |
| `metrics.image.pullSecrets`                | Specify docker-registry secret names as an array                                                               | `[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods)  |
| `metrics.podAnnotations`                   | Additional annotations for Metrics exporter pod                                                                | `{prometheus.io/scrape: "true", prometheus.io/port: "9117"}`                                                   |
| `metrics.resources`                        | Exporter resource requests/limit                                                                               | {}                        |

For more information please refer to the [bitnami/phpmyadmin](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-Phpmyadmin) image documentation.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set db.host=mymariadb,db.port=3306 stable/phpmyadmin
```

The above command sets the phpMyAdmin to connect to a database in `mymariadb` host and `3306` port respectively.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/phpmyadmin
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Upgrading

### To 1.0.0

Backwards compatibility is not guaranteed unless you modify the labels used on the chart's deployments.
Use the workaround below to upgrade from versions previous to `1.0.0`. The following example assumes that the release name is `phpmyadmin`:

```console
$ kubectl patch deployment phpmyadmin-phpmyadmin --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
```

Commit message:

[stable/phpmyadmin] Use immutable tags (#14198)
* Bump chart version

Signed-off-by: Carlos Rodriguez Hernandez <crhernandez@bitnami.com>

* [stable/phpmyadmin] Use immutable tags

Signed-off-by: Carlos Rodriguez Hernandez <crhernandez@bitnami.com>

stable/phpmyadmin/README.md, after:

# phpMyAdmin

[phpMyAdmin](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/) is a free and open source administration tool for MySQL and MariaDB. As a portable web application written primarily in PHP, it has become one of the most popular MySQL administration tools, especially for web hosting services.

## TL;DR

```console
$ helm install stable/phpmyadmin
```

## Introduction

This chart bootstraps a [phpMyAdmin](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-phpmyadmin) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

Bitnami charts can be used with [Kubeapps](https://kubeapps.com/) for deployment and management of Helm Charts in clusters. This chart has been tested to work with NGINX Ingress, cert-manager, fluentd and Prometheus on top of the [BKPR](https://kubeprod.io/).

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.8+ with Beta APIs enabled

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release name `my-release`:

```console
$ helm install --name my-release stable/phpmyadmin
```

The command deploys phpMyAdmin on the Kubernetes cluster in the default configuration. The [configuration](#configuration) section lists the parameters that can be configured during installation.

> **Tip**: List all releases using `helm list`

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the `my-release` deployment:

```console
$ helm delete my-release
```

The command removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the phpMyAdmin chart and their default values.

|         Parameter          |               Description                |                         Default                         |
|----------------------------|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `global.imageRegistry`     | Global Docker image registry             | `nil`                                                   |
| `global.imagePullSecrets`  | Global Docker registry secret names as an array | `[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods) |
| `image.registry`           | phpMyAdmin image registry                | `docker.io`                                             |
| `image.repository`         | phpMyAdmin image name                    | `bitnami/phpmyadmin`                                    |
| `image.tag`                | phpMyAdmin image tag                     | `{TAG_NAME}`                                            |
| `image.pullPolicy`         | Image pull policy                        | `IfNotPresent`                                          |
| `image.pullSecrets`        | Specify docker-registry secret names as an array               | `[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods)                                                   |
| `service.type`             | Type of service for phpMyAdmin frontend  | `ClusterIP`                                             |
| `service.port`             | Port to expose service                   | `80`                                                    |
| `db.port`                  | Database port to use to connect          | `3306`                                                  |
| `db.chartName`             | Database suffix if included in the same release | `nil`                                            |
| `db.host`                  | Database host to connect to              | `nil`                                                   |
| `db.bundleTestDB`                  | Deploy a MariaDB instance for testing purposes              | `false`                                                   |
| `ingress.enabled`          | Ingress resource to be added             | `false`                                                 |
| `ingress.annotations`      | Ingress annotations                      | `{ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /,    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /}`          |
| `ingress.path`             | Path to access frontend                  | `/`                                                     |
| `ingress.host`             | Ingress host                             | `nil`                                                   |
| `ingress.tls`              | TLS for ingress                          | `[]`                                                    |
| `resources`                | CPU/Memory resource requests/limits      | `{}`                                                    |
| `nodeSelector`             | Node labels for pod assignment           | `{}`                                                    |
| `tolerations`              | List of node taints to tolerate          | `[]`                                                    |
| `affinity`                 | Map of node/pod affinities               | `{}`                                                    |
| `podAnnotations`                | Pod annotations                                   | `{}`                                                       |
| `metrics.enabled`                          | Start a side-car prometheus exporter                                                                           | `false`                                              |
| `metrics.image.registry`                   | Apache exporter image registry                                                                                  | `docker.io`                                          |
| `metrics.image.repository`                 | Apache exporter image name                                                                                      | `lusotycoon/apache-exporter`                           |
| `metrics.image.tag`                        | Apache exporter image tag                                                                                       | `v0.5.0`                                            |
| `metrics.image.pullPolicy`                 | Image pull policy                                                                                              | `IfNotPresent`                                       |
| `metrics.image.pullSecrets`                | Specify docker-registry secret names as an array                                                               | `[]` (does not add image pull secrets to deployed pods)  |
| `metrics.podAnnotations`                   | Additional annotations for Metrics exporter pod                                                                | `{prometheus.io/scrape: "true", prometheus.io/port: "9117"}`                                                   |
| `metrics.resources`                        | Exporter resource requests/limit                                                                               | {}                        |

For more information please refer to the [bitnami/phpmyadmin](http://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-Phpmyadmin) image documentation.

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release \
  --set db.host=mymariadb,db.port=3306 stable/phpmyadmin
```

The above command sets the phpMyAdmin to connect to a database in `mymariadb` host and `3306` port respectively.

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the above parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```console
$ helm install --name my-release -f values.yaml stable/phpmyadmin
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

### [Rolling VS Immutable tags](https://docs.bitnami.com/containers/how-to/understand-rolling-tags-containers/)

It is strongly recommended to use immutable tags in a production environment. This ensures your deployment does not change automatically if the same tag is updated with a different image.

Bitnami will release a new chart updating its containers if a new version of the main container, significant changes, or critical vulnerabilities exist.

## Upgrading

### To 1.0.0

Backwards compatibility is not guaranteed unless you modify the labels used on the chart's deployments.
Use the workaround below to upgrade from versions previous to `1.0.0`. The following example assumes that the release name is `phpmyadmin`:

```console
$ kubectl patch deployment phpmyadmin-phpmyadmin --type=json -p='[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/selector/matchLabels/chart"}]'
```
